{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1031{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1\lang1031 \sbasedon0 \snext0 
heading 2;}{\s3\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\lang1031 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\sa120\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{
\s16\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \lang2057 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text 2;}{\s17\qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx6856\adjustright \lang2057 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text 3;}}{\info
{\title The Legal Foundations of The Union in Tanzania's Union and Zanzibar Constitutions (pp34 - 43)}{\author Ettle}{\operator Ettle}{\creatim\yr1999\mo5\dy23\hr15\min13}{\revtim\yr2001\mo1\dy5\hr16\min10}{\version14}{\edmins0}{\nofpages43}
{\nofwords24329}{\nofchars-32766}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws0}{\vern73}}\margl1417\margr1417\margt1417\margb1134 \facingp\deftab709\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\hyphhotz425\notabind\noextrasprl\sprsspbf\brkfrm\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0
\sectd \linex576\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\b\fs24\lang2057 
W2A001T
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 <I>}{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 ... Mr Dourado tries to further fortify his argument by asserting that one of the signatories of the Articles, the late Mr. Karume, had a federation in mind when he signed the Articles.
\par <#/>Those who have propounded the thesis of two govern
ments, and for whom the consolidation of the union has meant eventual creation of a unitary state, also proceed from the assumption that the arrangement in the original agreement was a temporary expedient to allay the fears of Zanzibar. <#/>Thus Tanganyik
a
, being the bigger and stronger partner, was prepared to surrender totally its sovereignty to the common government right away while Zanzibar needed to keep it, or was allowed to keep it. <#/>But it was envisaged that eventually the two governments would 
fuse just as eventually the two ruling parties merged. <#/>This argument is implied in the proposals made in 1984 by the National Executive Committee of }{\i\fs24\lang2057 Chama cha Mapinduzi }{\fs24\lang2057 to}{\i\fs24\lang2057  }{\fs24\lang2057 
amend the 1977 Constitution. <#/>The proposals describe, the arrangement of two governments as an 'intermediate method' <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 [para.541.] }{\fs24\lang2057 </X> <#/>
What then, in the Party's view, was supposed to be permanent or final? <#/>Here is the answer. <#/>In paragraph 56 of its proposals the NEC argued that 'the essence of having a list of union matters in the
 Constitution is to indicate the powers of the Zanzibar Government which were surrendered to the Union Government; and the essence of adding more matters, on to the list of union matters, as has been done from to time, is to transfer more of the powers of
}{\b\fs24\lang2057  }{\fs24\lang2057 the}{\b\fs24\lang2057  }{\fs24\lang2057 Zanzibar Government to the Union Government'. <#/>The proposals go on to suggest the establishment of Commission which, among other things, would 'review}{\b\fs24\lang2057  }{
\fs24\lang2057 from time to time and make recommendations regarding non-Union matters which if made union matters would help to consolidate the Union.\rquote 
\par <#/>It needs hardly to be emphasised that the essence of these proposals is to see a complete fusion eventually and the creation of a unitary state. <#/>That is the only meaning that can be attached to the expansion o
f the list of union matters. <#/>As I will show later, nothing of the kind was envisaged by the original agreement.
\par <#/>What is common to both these positions, to repeat, is the assumption that the arrangement in the Acts of Union (Articles of Union) was '
intermediate', as CCM asserts; or 'interim', as Dourado argues; or a 'temporary expedient' as Professor Srivastava implies and Kabudi explicitly repeats; or 'provisional' and 'transitional', as Seaton and Maliti profess. <#/>The proponents from both sides
 
seem to arrive at this assumption, which incidentally they put forward as a conclusion, from one or more of the following positions and propositions: (1) literal reading of the Acts in which the term 'interim' is used at several places, (2) that each juri
s
diction or set of functions necessarily entails a corresponding government, and (3) the alleged intention of the original framers of the Articles of Union. <#/>A careful examination of the Acts and Articles of Union, it is submitted, does not support any 
of these propositions.
\par <#/>Let me take the last point, about the alleged intention of the, framers, first. <#/>It is a well-known canon of statutory construction that if the words used in an instrument are clear and unambiguous, the courts will not go behin
d them to ascertain the intention of the framers. <#/>That even if the words are ambiguous, the intention should be gathered from the instrument itself by analysing its basic scheme and framework. <#/>This is what is implied by the term 'intendment' of th
e
 legislation. <#/>One must not therefore confuse the necessary intendment, which is essentially a legal inference, with the actual intention of the framers, which refers to the state of mind,' and if it can be ascertained at all, is a question of fact and
 not law.
\par <#/>Dourado's assertion therefore that one of the signatories thought that the agreement he was signing provided for a federation is in law irrelevant, besides being virtually impossible to ascertain in fact. <#/>After all, there is no single conc
eption of what is a federation. <#/>Both signatories could have believed that they were creating a federation and yet differed on the meaning to be attached to the term. <#/>What is less controversial and legally ascertainable, though, are the actual stru
c
tures created by the Acts - in terms of what the provisions expressly, and by necessary implication, provide. <#/>That brings us to the first proposition which seems to suggest that the necessary implication of the Articles is that the arrangement, and th
e structures created thereby, was 'interim' or 'intermediate'.
\par <#/>It is suggested that the position that the arrangement in the Acts of Union was 'interim' is derived from the use of that phrase at various places in the Acts. <#/>In the Acts the term 'inte
rim' is consistently used in the phrase 'interim constitution', i.e. in the context of characterising the constitution. <#/>Section 2 defines 'the interim constitution' to mean the constitution declared by section 5 to be the Constitution by which the Uni
ted Republic is to be governed during the interim period, as from time to time modified or amended.
\par <#/>The interim constitution referred to in section 5 is the Republican Constitution of Tanganyika as modified in accordance with the provisions of that sect
ion. <#/>Section 5 also makes clear that the said interim Constitution may be altered from time to time by Acts of Parliament in the usual manner, subject to the provisions of the section.
\par <#/>Section 2 defines the term 'interim period' to mean 'the period
 commencing on the Union Day and expiring immediately before the commencement of a Constitution adopted by a Constituent Assembly in accordance with section 9' and the Union Day is the day after the enactment of the Acts of Union, i.e. 26th April, 1964.

\par <#
/>It is plain therefore that what was considered to be 'interim' was the constitution by which the Union was supposed to be governed until such time as the adoption of a permanent constitution in accordance with the Articles. <#/>But this is not to say th
a
t the arrangement, structures and division of powers stipulated in section 5 were considered, explicitly or <-/impliedly>, as 'interim', 'intermediate' or 'provisional'. <#/>That arrangement was supposed to endure. <#/>It gave the basic scheme and the ess
ential features of the Union. <#/>Indeed, as I will argue later, the provisions of section 5 are made unalterable by virtue of the opening words of the section which are controlling.
\par <#/>During the 'interim period', the Parliament as a matter of fact revoke
d the Republican Constitution and adopted the one-party constitution in 1965. <#/>But the later continued to be an 'interim constitution' ultimately governed by the provisions of the Acts of Union so far as the Union was concerned. <#/>(The Acts of Union 
i
ncidentally were made entrenched provisions in the Interim Constitution of 1965). <#/>To the extent therefore that the two, three or one government controversy is based on the assumption of the alleged 'interim' nature of the arrangement in the Articles o
f Union, it finds no support in the Acts or Articles of Union themselves.
\par <#/>The second proposition proceeds as follows. <#/>(1) Three separate jurisdictions necessarily entail three separate governments; (2) the Articles stipulate three jurisdictions, the
refore (3) they create three governments, therefore (4) the merging of two governments in one under the Articles was only a 'temporary expedient'. <#/>I have already shown that the conclusion in (4) is not borne out by the Article and the Acts. <#/>Once (
4
) is not true, the basis of (3) is partly knocked off. <#/>It is, in my view, incontestable that the Articles or the Acts do not create three governments as separate organs. <#/>That one body may perform two separate sets of functions does not mean, eithe
r
 in law or in fact, that it is two bodies. <#/>In this regard the ridicule by Mwalimu Nyerere that for lawyers 1 + 1 = 3 has a lot of force in it. <#/>But, with respect, it does not follow that 1 + 1 = 2 either. <#/>It depends on what you are adding. <#/>
I
f you add 1 orange with 1 banana you do not get 2 bananas or 2 oranges. <#/>Similarly, 1 Zanzibar government + 1 union legislature and executive do not add up to 2 governments! <#/>This shows how the debate in terms of numbers of governments is not helpfu
l in comprehending the actual structures of the association created by the Acts.
\par <#/>There is indeed another underlying flaw in the arguments which equate federalism necessarily with separate, in this case three, governments. <#/>That proposition, too, in m
y view, is a confusion between an ideal-type and its practical operationalisation. <#/>In practice, federal structures have taken very different forms as we shall see in the next section. <#/>And that brings me to the question of how to classify the Acts 
of Union; i.e. whether they constitute a federal or a unitary constitution.
\par <#/>By all accounts, it is clear that the Acts of Union is not a unitary constitution. <#/>The Zanzibar Legislature is not subordinate to the Union Parliament. <#/>Its powers are no
t devolved or delegated. <#/>Its powers are plenary in all respects bound only by the instrument that creates it, in this case the Acts of Union and the relevant Zanzibar's Constitution. <#/>Comparison with Northern Ireland, which seems to have been first
 proposed by Mr. Pius Msekwa, is not only politically offensive to the Zanzibari sentiments, as alleged by one commentator, but, in law, grossly inaccurate.
\par <#/>The Government of Ireland Act, 1920 expressly declared the United Kingdom Parliament to be supre
me. <#/>Even though it gave law-making powers to the Northern Ireland Legislature in specified matters, the United Kingdom Acts of Parliament extended to Northern Ireland were to prevail in case of conflict with the Irish Acts. <#/>Clearly therefore the N
o
rthern Ireland situation is one of devolution, and not distribution, of power. <#/>The 1920 Act therefore smugly fits in the definition of a unitary constitution given by Wheare in which 'the legislature of the whole country is the supreme law-making body
 in the country. <#/>It may permit other legislatures to exist and to exercise their powers, but it has the right, in law, to overrule them; they are subordinate to it.\rquote 
\par <#/>Seaton and Maliti in advancing their thesis that the structures created by the Acts
 of Union were 'provisional' or 'transitional', have found similarity with the United Arab Republic established in 1958 between Egypt and Syria. <#/>It is suggested that this comparison too is misleading. <#/>In the case of the United Arab Republic, it is
 
very clear from the Proclamation and the Provisional Constitution of the United Arab Republic, that one single government - including all three branches, executive, legislative, and judicial - was created, with Egypt and Syria as regions, whose affairs we
r
e to be overseen by respective Executive Councils during the interim period. <#/>Clearly a total fusion was envisaged and there is nothing in the instruments which set up the United Arab Republic about division of legislative and executive powers. <#/>Thi
s is a far cry from the Acts of Union under discussion.
\par <#/>It is also beyond controversy that the Acts of Union are not a confederal constitution either. <#/>The distinguishing characteristic of a confederal constitution is that the central government does
 not operate directly upon the people but through regional governments. <#/>This is not the case}{\b\fs24\lang2057  }{\fs24\lang2057 
with the Acts of Union. <#/>The Acts of Union are therefore some form of a federal constitution. <#/>The question is what form?
\par <#/>It is widely acknowledged that examples of}{\i\fs24\lang2057  }{\fs24\lang2057 
existing federal constitutions do not fit into any one neat definition of, what Wheare calls, 'the federal principle'. <#/>Various tests have been applied, among which the following may be mentioned: -
\par \tab (1)a clearly defined distribution of powers between general and regional governments all which are at the same or co-ordinate level;
\par \tab (2) defined and limited powers to the general government while the residue is vested in the regional governments;
\par \tab (3) that both the general and regional governments act directly upon the people, as opposed to a confederation, where the regional government alone operates directly upon the people.
\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>All these tests have their exceptions and modifications. Professor Wheare therefore suggests that the core of
 the federal principle really is the division of powers between the general and regional governments each of which is co-ordinate with, and independent of, the other in its own sphere and within its sphere it acts directly on the people. <#/>Whether or no
t a constitution is federal, then depends on whether the federal principle is predominant or that it has been modified to such an extent that it tends towards unitarism rather than federalism.
\par <#/>Applying this test, Wheare would probably classify the Unite
d States and Switzerland Constitutions as federal, even though he notes modifications of the strict federal principle, while the Indian (1950) and Soviet (1936) Constitutions as quasi-federal. <#/>Probably the most important modification of the federal pr
inciple in the case of India and the Soviet Union, that seems to weigh with Professor Wheare, is that, in both cases, the central government has powers of intervention even in those areas reserved to the regional governments.
\par <#/>Let us now apply this discussion to the situation at hand.
\par <#/>In the Acts of Union, looked from the Zanzibar side, the federal principle is patently clear and meets virtually all the tests, notwithstanding the fact that the matters reserved to the 'central' government in the stipul
ated eleven items are substantial. <#/>From the Zanzibar side therefore the federal principle is undoubtedly predominant. <#/>As a matter of fact more predominant than, say, in the case of the Indian Constitution where the autonomy of the states is far le
ss than that of Zanzibar and where it can be constitutionally suppressed under certain circumstances. <#/>If, therefore, the Indian constitution has attracted the classification 'quasi\-
federal', such a label would tend to underestimate federalism in the Acts of Union, at least, as seen from the Zanzibar side.
\par <#/>On the other hand, from the Mainland's side the federal principle, at least on first sight, seems to be substantially modified. <#/>The Mainland, as a region in the Union, does not have a regional L
egislature and Executive as separate organs of government. <#/>This, as I argued earlier, is popularly interpreted to mean that Tanganyikans do not have their own government. Undoubtedly, it is this that has weighed with various observers who have describ
e
d the Tanzanian union as part-federation or quasi-federation. <#/>But the popular meaning does not exactly fit the legal arrangement, as argued earlier. <#/>Tanganyikans do not have their own Legislature and Executive but do have their own legal system an
d
 Judicature. <#/>Thus the modification of the federal principle, even from the Tanganyikan side, is not as substantial as it may appear on first sight. <#/>The result is that while the Zanzibaris are subjected to two governments, a central and a regional 
as in an ideal-type federation, Tanganyikans are subjected to only one, but, }{\i\v\fs24\lang2057 part}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
-government. <#/>Putting the two sides together and viewing the Acts of Union as a whole, I submit that the federal principle is predominant and the Acts of Union may be properly classified as a federal constitution.
\par 
\par <h> <#/>}{\i\v\fs24\lang2057 2.2.2 }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 Method of Amendment}{\v\fs24\lang2057 </h>}{\v\fs22\lang2057 
\par }{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>The other form of classification often employed is by looking at the method of amendment of constitutions. <#/>Rigid or controlled constitutions are those which require a s
pecial procedure to amend them such as special majorities; a different body, for example a constituent assembly; a referendum or plebiscite, etc. <#/>Flexible or uncontrolled constitutions can be amended by the legislature like any other law and thus, may
 even be <-/impliedly> amended, by an ordinary act of parliament.}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>
\par </I>
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Shivji, Issa G. (1990) The Legal Foundations of The Union in Tanzania's Union and Zanzibar Constitutions (pp 34 - 43)</&>
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 W2A002T
\par <I> <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 THE LIMITS OF THE SINGLE PARTY DEMOCRATIC PRACTICE </h>
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 <h> <#/>The Concept of Democracy and the Party Systems </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 To quote Jennings (1963) 'democracy is one of those pleasure giving words' which every state system seek to be identified with. <#/>Often, however, the concept of democra
cy conceals the reality of power exercised by some group of persons who try to maintain themselves in power. <#/>In this regard democracy is not just the right to vote in a government or merely secure legal provisions in state constitutions or the right t
o speech, freedom to associate etc. <#/>Democracy is about a whole set of concerns which afford the citizenry the capacity to control their destiny.
\par <#/>Since 18th Century Western Europe, Early 20th Century Africa and present Eastern Europe, democracy has b
een advanced by a combination of leaders of revolutions and popular movements. <#/>These institutions have fought for the right to be consulted in decision making, have pressed for the removal of barriers to their progress and have demanded for a central 
place in the governance process.
\par <#/>As Clarck (1991) suggests, "the driving force for these movements is the voluntary coming together of men and women in a common purpose to improve the society in which they live by demanding change from their rulers.
\par <#/
>In the countries of the North, that is Western Europe and North America the vehicles for demanding change and participation in the governance process have for a long time been interest groups that eventually aggregated into political parties which in tur
n contested for political power. <#/>Thus as time went by, political parties have been one of the major instruments of the citizenry in their bid to effect democracy in their societies.
\par <#/>But while the political party remains such an important pillar for 
democracy in the countries of the North, increasingly, organizations formed around single issues have in contemporary times evolved into significant political players in the struggle for democracy in those countries. <#/>Such organizations include the env
i
ronmental movements, Peace movements, Ethnic organizations and the wide range of Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs). <#/>In other words, there are three issues surrounding the concept of democracy in the mentioned context. <#/>First, democracy is the i
n
cessant demand by a people for the right to secure a central place in the governance process. <#/>Secondly is the transparent character of the context within which such demands are organized, that is, the development of a multiplicity and plurality of org
a
nizations and issues that form the basis of democratic practice. <#/>But also there is the third factor that political parties are not the only and <-/infact> they may not be the major vehicles for democracy in the face of the growing importance of the ot
her nonparty organizations.
\par <#/>In the countries of the South, Africa in particular, the colonial experience has been a double faced phenomenon in relation to the subject of democracy. <#/>Colonialism was an authoritarian and totalitarian system that clampe
d down on individual initiative, freedom and liberty. <#/>It was a non competitive anti party system; it was against the evolution of free and autonomous labour and cooperative unions or individual associations.
\par <#/>On the other hand, towards its final day
s, colonialism attempted at a programme of institutional transfer into the emerging independent states so that the actual power transfer process was affected through multiparty competitive elections supported by independence constitutions that provided fo
r
 a free press, free labour unions etc. <#/>With independence, however, the nationalist parties that came to power reverted to the very system they fought to destroy but which to them provided a living though undemocratic form of governance. <#/>Monopolist
ic politics evolved under single party regimes.
\par <#/>Tordoff (1984) tracing the post independence politics in Africa discusses four important tendencies in African politics: (i) the trend towards single partism derived from the centralising traditions of col
onial rule, (ii) the trend towards firmer ideological basis of party politics ostensibly with the objective of giving their followers a new sense of direction and purpose, (iii) the trend towards personalization of power whereby the party leader becomes t
h
e head of state with essential executive powers vested on him, and (iv) the trend towards the subordination of the party to the state whereby the party and its various elements are subsumed into the state bureaucracy and assigned with the public relations
 function to explain and justify decisions taken elsewhere by the state.
\par <#/>A marked feature within these tendencies was the process towards clamping down on opposition and the attempt to integrate within its system otherwise free and autonomous organizati
ons such as labour organizations, interest groups and associations. <#/>Also, there was the process of eroding the popular and broad based support which political institutions gained from the Nationalists.
\par <#/>So, conditions in the countries of the South, 
Africa in particular, did not lead themselves to the development of democratic processes along the lines of the countries of the North. <#/>In fact, the general channels for democracy such as free association through interest groups or political parties w
e
re suppressed. <#/>It is evidently clear, however, that even in the countries of the North, democracy was not an overnight development. <#/>Nor was the party system an immediate component of the <-/democractic> organizational forms. <#/>It took decades fo
r democracy to emerge and develop to the form one observes today.
\par <#/>In Africa, the movement towards democracy has always been there since the Nationalist Struggles of the 1950's to the present <-/resistances> against post independence monopolistic single 
party rule. <#/>In recent times <-/resistances> to monopolistic politics have centred around the demand for individual citizen rights and freedoms; desire to participate in the governance process and the need to remove all inhibitions to individual freedo
ms such as detention without trial and the like.
\par <#/>Several institutions have participated in the presentation of these demands. <#/>They include, religious organizations such as Churches, Civil Rights Movements, Local level social groups, academics and pr
ofessionals etc. <#/>The emergence of these groups suggests two points. <#/>First, is that the single party system is an inadequate institution for the articulation of these democratic demands. <#/>Secondly, and related to the first point is the factor th
a
t these groups became the budding institutions of multiparty politics. <#/>It is from these organizations that the emerging political parties are now growing. <#/>The developments obviously indicate that the association of democracy and plural party polit
i
cs is inevitable and probably natural. <#/>The major question now in Africa is whether or not the emerging opposition parties will evolve into viable democratic opposition. <#/>In other words, to what extent will the emerging party system become a vehicle
 towards the realization of democracy?
\par <#/>From the aforegoing it is <-/abudantly> clear that the multiparty system seems to afford greater opportunity towards the realization of democracy in so far as it provides the context for more transparent political 
processes and the plural organizational form accords with the potential for independence, multiple initiative, individual freedom, accountability of rulers etc. <#/>But that may not always be the case as current trends in the countries of the north de\-
mons
trate. <#/>The party system has its own limits and society may opt for more grassroot organizations around specific subjects as a more meaningful means of participating in the governance process. <#/>This is not only the trend in the countries of the nort
h but also in the countries of the south where multipartism had been long introduced, for example in Bangladesh, }{\i\fs24\lang2057 5}{\fs24\lang2057 
 where the people have been disenchanted with mainstream political parties. <#/>Successive governments have neglected their election manifestos
 about resolving the peoples problems. <#/>The people themselves have therefore decided to direct their efforts and commitment to new more grassroot organizations through which they hope to effectively participate in the governance process. <#/>What the s
tatement suggests is that the creation of the multiparty framework is not the final leg to democracy but may lead towards it.
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 The Practice of Democracy and the Party System in Tanzania </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 The structure of politics and its organization in Tanzania has essentially been shaped by the dominant party, }{\i\fs24\lang2057 Chama cha Mapinduzi (CCM) }{\fs24\lang2057 
and its predecessors the Tanganyika African National Union (TANU) and Afro Shirazi Party (ASP)6 In 1963 the National Executive Committee of TANU passed a resolution to make T
anganyika (Mainland Tanzania) a one party democratic state and this was subsequently endorsed in the state constitution in 1965. <#/>The same applied to Zanzibar after the Revolution which overthrew the Arab oligarchy in January 1964. <#/>Following this s
tep, in 1975 the two parties were declared supreme organs of power under which all political activities were to operate. <#/>In 1977 TANU and ASP merged into CCM as the only party in charge of political and policy issues in Tanzania.
\par <#/>Prior to the Arusha
 Declaration on Ujamaa and Self Reliance in 1967, the major reasons which went into the establishment of the one party system were essentially related to efforts towards maintaining national integration and unity in an otherwise fragmented society: fragme
n
ted in terms of ethnic, religious, regional and racial differences. <#/>With the Arusha Declaration in 1967 the reasons to justify the one party system found anchorage in <-/ideolgoical> considerations that the one party system was the ideal organizationa
l form to realize Ujamaa. <#/>This aspect featured prominently in the title given to the new party in 1977, }{\i\fs24\lang2057 Chama cha Mapinduzi }{\fs24\lang2057 
or the Party for (Socialist) Revolution. <#/>Whatever the reasons that have been used to justify the one party system, the point at this stage is that as from 1965 Tanzania was a single party political system.
\par <#/>Within this monolithic system democracy was conceived and was expected to operate. <#/>Among the essential elements of democracy within the single party system included:
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx289\tx578\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>(1)\tab 
A Republican Constitution which provided for the existence of a parliament; separation of powers, an independent Judiciary, Bill of Rights and an ombudsman as an additional institution which would safeguard the rights of the individuals.
\par <#/>(2)\tab Regular elections at national and local levels as a means of citizens' political participation.
\par <#/>(3)\tab Officially sponsored organs of peoples interest articulation, for example, a National Workers Union; a National Cooperative Union, the Youths organization etc.
\par <#/>(4)\tab Officially sponsored rallies and meetings.
\par <#/>(5)\tab Officially controlled radio and daily papers.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>These aspects, and other efforts such as the creation of the workers' councils in places of work, monthly party and non party member meetings served as channels of democratic participation.

\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 The Limits of the Single party Democratic Practice in Tanzania </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 It has been observed by a number of analysts of the presently existing political system in Tanzania that unlike many other sin
gle party regimes elsewhere in the Third World, the Tanzanian single party system provided some opportunity for democracy. <#/>Among the cases usually cited include first, the regular elections. <#/>There is evidence that since the inception of the one pa
r
ty system in 1965, elections have regularly been conducted every five years. <#/>Elsewhere, elections have either been irregular or at times completely and <-/indefinetly> postponed. <#/>It has also been observed that even under this single party framewor
k, the elections have been seriously contested resulting in significant changes in the previous leadership groups and personalities. <#/>In this regard too, the courts have played a significant role when elections results were contested before the law.

\par <#/>
Certainly, the regular elections and the opportunity which the citizens secured to even oust leaders they did not want <-/confered> a large measure of legitimacy for the system and its leaders, an important aspect which has assisted Tanzania to sustain it
s stability even under crisis situations.
\par <#/>A second point often regarded as positive in the Tanzania's single Party System is the large measure of personal freedoms which its citizens have been seen to enjoy, especially when compared to countries under s
imilar conditions. <#/>It has been observed that even in the officially sponsored organiza\-
tions, meetings, rallies and papers, it has been possible for some of the citizens to air their complaints and that the leadership has often <-/exercized> some toler
ance and restraint to public criticism. <#/>However, the single party system in Tanzania has a number of limitations endemic to a monolithic political system. <#/>These limitations have been acknowledged even by the leaders themselves, presently and even 
before it.
\par <#/>At a general level, the single party political system in Tanzania as elsewhere is accused of stifling initiative because of the numerous controls it imposed upon its citizens. <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
<#/>As pointed out earlier, the United Republic constitution r
equired that all political activities be conducted under the auspices of the single party. <#/>In this regard the single party determined who should contest for which position in all elections within the party, within the government system and even in som
e
 associations like football clubs, women's organizations etc. <#/>Such controls and others meant that people with independent positions or alternative views would be left out. <#/>And since there was no other political framework, they were left to rot out
side the political system. <#/>This phenomenon of course has had serious implications for policy improvements, self development and national progress.
\par <#/>Another criticism of a general nature with regard to the one party system is the tendency towards bure
aucratization of politics whereby politics became the preserve of a few highly placed state and party officials cum politicians. <#/>This aspect explains further Tordoff's observation that the final tendency of the one party system is for the political pa
r
ty to be encapsulated into the state system. <#/>The case here describes the situation whereby state (and parastatal) officials seek to monopolize power through the seeking of political positions in the only party. <#/>Thus a Cabinet Minister, Principal S
ecretary or Director General of a public firm would "contest" for a position in the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party while retaining his position in the state. <#/>In this way only few officials at the top monopolized power.
\par <#/>Looking at so
me of the specific areas, it is evident from various previous studies that while there have been regular elections for example, elections as a means of citizens participation was very limited in this regard. <#/>Non party members could only cast votes in 
t
he parliamentary and presidential elections. <#/>Although they formed the majority they could not themselves be allowed to stand for any position unless they became party members. <#/>But even for those who were members, the rules and regulations set for 
c
andidature of a position only favoured those who were already in the political system. <#/>In such a situation, positions in the party and the government at both the national and local levels were retained by the same people over a long time. <#/>Politics
 became identifiable with certain personalities.
\par <#/>Another specific criticism focuses on the problem of accountability. <#/>Where there is such close relationship between the party and the state under the one party system then it becomes difficult to hold
 any one accountable for misdeeds, incompetence etc. <#/>The political system rests on <-/coverups> and silence. <#/>It becomes protective of its key members even when they have <-/commited> the whole society into problems of a serious magnitude. <#/>In r
elation to that J.K. Nyerere, the first president, says in part; <quote_>
\par ... <#/>We also have institutions for democracy. But they are not made use of. In the villages especially, people are disregarded and often disdained and their representatives dare not do any\-
thing. <#/>In fact at times the leaders who are supposed to come to the defence of these ordinary people are the ones who commit acts of atrocity to them. <#/>In the end for fear of these leaders, the people remain <-/grambling> in silence. (Speec
h by the President of TANU 5/2/1977)
\par <#/>Non official translation.
\par <#/>Another area which restricted democracy in Tanzania included freedom of speech and freedom of association. <#/>On speech, with the controlled media, it was not possible to use those org
ans to criticize the system. <#/>Society also had to rely only on official information about developments in the country. <#/>Political association was only restricted to officially sanctioned meetings. <#/>In summary the degree of democratic practice in 
Tanzania was restricted by the party system it was based on.
\par <#/>A critical question to be asked is, will a multiparty system of necessity bring about more democracy in Tanzania? <#/>This question is the subject of the whole book and it will be treated in s
ubsequent chapters. <#/>But we can at least say at this point that democracy evolves over a period of time.}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>
\par </I>
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Mmuya, Max/Amon Chaligha (1992) "Towards Multiparty Politics in Tanzania" Dar es Salaam Univ. Press, Chapter I pages 1-6</&>
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 W2A003T
\par <I> <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 INTRODUCTION </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 This book is an attempt to offer an analysis of the process of social and economic change in Nampula Province in Northern-Central Mozambique, an area which is throughout the study referred to as Makuani a locative term mean
ing "the land of the Makua." <#/>Despite the term however an ethno-centric focus has been avoided and preference given to a regional focus for several reasons. <#/>First, the dearth of evidence on the formative years of Makua society makes an ethno-centre
d focus a near impossibility. <#/>Secondly, and perhaps more important, is the fact that such an ethnic focus would have inevitably relegated to a secondary plane other non\-
Makua groups with whom the Makua were in constant interaction; and yet, it was indee
d through such cross-cultural interaction between the various groups that the societies in northern Mozambique generally, and within Makuani in particular were shaped and nurtured.
\par <#/>The study has mainly centred on the development of commodity production
 at the local level, and how this led to changes in the organization of Makua society. <#/>Political and ideological changes resulting in the integration of Makuani into the international economic system through the medium of trade are considered in so fa
r as the evidence at our disposal can allow. <#/>As more research needs to be done in the area before any definite conclusions can be made, conclusions drawn in this study can only be treated as tentative, serving as guides for future investigation.

\par <#/>Soc
ial change has been broadly treated as a complex process of transformation and adjustment in response to a number of causal factors. <#/>In various places, I have tried to show how both internal and external factors were instrumental in shaping the societ
i
es in the hinterland of Mozambique island, as well as the relationship between them. <#/>Regional trade brought together different communities into a relationship of mutual interdependence, while long distance trade linked these societies with the outside
 world. <#/>But the struggle for control of resources and markets also drew these societies into conflicts which lasted until the end of the nineteenth century.
\par <#/>Although trade was a very fundamental factor in bringing the different societies together, i
t is argued that in order to explain the changes in relationships between and within communities, and indeed the whole process of social change within Makuani, it is imperative to show the structure of production and the mode of appropriating surplus in t
h
at society. <#/>This poses serious problems with respect to verification of the historical processes being described because of the dearth of evidence. <#/>An attempt is made therefore, to overcome this limitation by the use of inference within the contex
t of a theoretically tenable model.
\par <#/>The study is based on primary and secondary sources consulted in New York, Lisbon, Maputo and Dar es Salaam, between 1977 and 1979. <#/>Many of the archival materials on Mozambique have been published in one form or a
nother, and are available in many libraries and some have been translated into English. <#/>The best known of these published primary sources is Theal's nine volume collection on the Portuguese period in South-East Africa. <#/>While these collections are 
an >-/indespensable> introduction to the history of Portuguese expansion in the Indian Ocean, they are not a substitute for archival research as the collections are selective in their choice of documents, depending on the author's interests.
\par <#/>Theal's col
lections have recently been supplemented by a more comprehensive source book by Eric Exelson which covers the early Portuguese period in the area to about 1700. <#/>His extensive footnotes and bibliography have been used as an additional guide to other so
urces on the history of northern Mozambique between the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. <#/>This has posed no problem as these additional sources have been published either by individuals or by the Concelho Ultramarino. <#/>Santana's }{
\i\fs24\lang2057 Documenta\'e7ao Avulsa Sobre os Portuguese em Mo\'e7ambique }{\fs24\lang2057 for example, is a summary of documents available in the first twenty file boxes in the Arquivo Historico Ultramarino.
\par <#/>Apart from these published documents, the study has also relied heavily on archival sources from t
he Arquivo Historico de Mozambique, especially as concerns the second half of the <-/ninenteenth> century. <#/>The Mozambique archives are therefore richer in nineteenth century material than on earlier periods because in 1895, Antonio Enes, then Royal Co
m
missioner in Mozambique sent to Lisbon's Public Library many of the earlier documents. <#/>It is hoped that the Mozambique government will in one way or another, recover some of these documents which can be obtained either in Biblioteca Nacional de Lisbon
 or the Arquivo National de Torre de Tombo.
\par <#/>Whereas both the archives in Lisbon and Maputo are fairly rich in materials on the Portuguese presence in the Mozambican coastland, they are extremely <-/dificient> in materials on the peoples and societies th
at live in the hinterland of Mozambique. <#/>Attempts to reconstruct the social and economic history of Makuani on the basis of <-/pre-ninenteenth> century official sources have therefore ended up in failure and for this purpose, the study has relied on m
a
terial published by contemporary observers, some of which are extremely biased and impressionistic. <#/>Due to their inherent shortcomings, the various ethnographic monographs which have been written on the Makua should therefore be carefully scrutinized 
and cross-checked with other sources as their scholarly value is uneven; ranging from the biased views and prejudices of Santos Batista, to the carefully reasoned descriptive work of Antonio Rita-Ferreita.
\par <#/>The best historical studies on the region remai
n those by Alpers and Nancy Hafkin. <#/>Alpers' book on the ivory and slave trade in the area developed from his thesis on the role of the Yao in the development and expansion of the long distance trade that served as a link between the Coast of East-Cent
r
al Africa and its hinterland. <#/>Alpers' reluctance to utilize the ethnographic material is partly responsible for the glaring weakness in those sections of the book which attempt to reconstruct Makua society and economy during the eighteenth century. <#
/
>He thus presents the Makua as an undifferentiated mass of anonymous groups constantly at war with the Portuguese, interrupting the flow of commodities between the Coast and Yaoland. <#/>Because of this, one is left to speculate about the possible causes 
of tensions between the Portuguese and the Makua chiefs in Uticulo and Cambira in central Makuani, and their relationships with the Yao and Maravi frontier.
\par <#/>Despite its title, Hafkin's study is essentially a history of the Sultanate of Angoche and the S
heikhdoms of Ouitangonha, Sancul and Sangage. <#/>The economic base which gave rise to their political and military ascendancy during the eighteenth century together with their relationship with the Makua littoral prior to the eighteenth century are left 
o
ut of her analysis, despite evidence of acculturation and intermarriage between the matrilineal Makua women and the patrilineal Muslim communities in these coastal enclaves. <#/>And yet it was these earlier relationships which were to fulfil a significant
 
political and economic function during the latter part of the eighteenth century, and throughout the nineteenth century. <#/>Alpers' study, like that of Hafkin's therefore leaves us in the dark about Makua society at its critical period of transition to c
o
mmodity production and its integration into the international economic system. <#/>In both cases, the authors acknowledge their failure, but explain the nature of the problem in terms of lack of evidence. <#/>However, by reading Hafkin's well researched s
t
udy, one realizes how rich it is in terms of empirical data that could have been used in reconstructing the history of Makuani. <#/>While the problem of lack of sufficient evidence cannot be denied, it is equally true that this problem was compounded by t
he limited empiricist framework which formed the basis of her interpretation and analysis of the available facts.
\par <#/>A work on the political conjunctures and alignments in Northern Mozambique during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries cannot be fully c
omprehended when analysed outside the context of the development of international trade, and the class structure fostered by the penetration of merchant capital into the social formations of Northern Mozambique. <#/>The politics of survival, collaboration
 and co-option of the }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>orth}{\fs24\lang2057  swahili comprador class into a class of merchants, symbolically expressed as <foreign/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 homens <foreign/>do <foreign/>chapeu }{\fs24\lang2057 
(gentlemen of the hat) were expressions of political struggles at the periphery of the world economy. 
<#/>These struggles were neither caused by religious nor racial antagonisms, but were expressions of fundamental contradictions within the merchant community along the shores of Makuani. <#/>Without this conceptual framework it is easy to be carried away 
b
y the colonial Portuguese documentation which projected them as acts of rebellion fomented by religious or racial differences. <#/>Rarely did the Portuguese authorities realize that such conflicts transcended religious and racial boundaries, and that they
 arose out of the contradictions within the economic system that was evolving in Northern Mozambique during the second half of the eighteenth century.
\par <#/>The fragile political alliances in the region reflected the unstable class structures that were still in a state of evolution. <#/>A study of the relationship between the }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>orth}{\v\fs24\lang2057  }{\fs24\lang2057 
swahili sheikdoms of Sancul, Sangage and Quitangonha and the Makua chiefs in the interior on the one hand and the Portuguese on the other, reveals that in certain instances of co
nflict, the racial, cultural or the foreign/local polarity did not in the main constitute an antagonistic relation. <#/>Where this was the case, collaboration by either side became a preferred response.
\par <#/>A fuller understanding of these changing relation
ships requires a concerted effort in the study of the history of Northern Mozambique societies during the eighteenth century at least to fill in the gaps that appear in the studies that have so far been attempted by Lobato and Exelson for the earlier peri
od and by Alpers and Hafkin on the nineteenth century.
\par <#/>The only scholar who has so far addressed himself to the study of northern Mozambique during the eighteenth century is Fritz Hoppe. <#/>His book remains the only serious attempt to examine the impac
t of Portuguese colonial economic policies on the pre-capitalist economic formations of South-Eastern Africa. <#/>In addition to providing us with detailed information on the evolution of a colonial economic structure that embraced the Portuguese colonies
 
in the Indian Ocean and Brazil, Hoppe also discusses the importance of internal trade mainly in foodstuffs between Mozambique island and the subordinate ports of Ibo, Sofala, Inhambame and the Rivers of Sena-the Zambezi Valley. <#/>More attention on Makua
n
i would have been welcome, however, to enable one to determine the magnitude of trade in foodstuffs that was carried out between the Makua and the Portuguese before the development of the ivory and slave trade during the second half of the eighteenth cent
ury.
\par <#/>These criticisms of the existing literature are not meant to belittle the efforts of those who have initiated the study of the history of Northern Mozambique. <#/>They are intended to point out areas which require more research before definite conc
lusions can be made. <#/>Until such researches are carried out, these pioneering studies will remain the main sources of information on societies in Northern Mozambique and in this way continue influence the historiography of Mozambique for many years to 
come.
\par <#/>It is for this reason, therefore, that an interdisciplinary approach has been advocated. <#/>By using concepts in political economy as analytical categories it has been possible to explain the causal factors underlying the changing roles of social
 and political institutions, and the process of articulation and subordination of a mode of production by another within Makuani over a period of about 300 years.
\par <#/>The existing extensive literature on the Portuguese colonial policies and its domestic po
litical and economic problems has also made possible the situating of the present study on northern Mozambique within a wider context that would have otherwise been impossible. <#/>Though not addressed specifically to Mozambique, Sideri's book on Anglo-Po
r
tuguese relations since the seventeenth century for example, has enabled us to look at Portugal's problems as a colonial power during the nineteenth century more objectively than has been the case with English authors. <#/>Statistical information on the P
ortuguese economy and trade with her colonies is available in a number of books published by the Portuguese as well as by foreigners.
\par <#/>As one moves into the second half of the nineteenth century, sources of information on various aspects of the colonial 
society in Mozambique also increase. <#/>Apart from British <_-travelers><+_travellers'> accounts, there are also consular reports of British and US representatives resident in Mozambique beginning in 1854. <X_><#/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
In this study all these have been used as sources of information to supplement official Portuguese correspondence and the reports of governors and leaders of military expeditions.
\par <#/>The Makua, who are the major ethnic group considered in this body, are an aggregation of more than nine smaller s
ub-ethnic groups dispersed throughout the four districts of Mozambique which lie north of the Zambezi rivers. In 1960 they accounted for about 40% of Mozambique's total population, which was estimated at 6,578,600. <#/>Since the second half of the eightee
n
th century, they have been in constant migration into adjacent territories of Malawi and Tanzania where they now constitute substantial proportions of the populations in these countries. <#/>These migrations were prompted by the insecurity caused by slave
 
raids and labour <-/prestations> during the twentieth century. <#/>Through the slave trade, the Makua were also taken to the Indian Ocean islands of Madagascar, Mauritius and Comoro, while others were taken across the Atlantic Ocean mostly to Brazil and t
he <-/Carribean> Islands. <#/>Despite the "diaspora" the Makua, when taken as a whole, still rank among the largest ethnic groups in Eastern Africa. }{\fs24\lang2057 </X></I>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>J. F. Mbwiliza, m, 50, Ha, PhD
\par From: }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 A History of Commodity Production in Makuani, 1600-1900}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 . Dar es Salaam University Press, v-x</&>
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 W2A004T
\par <I> <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 GAZETTEMENT OF GEOGRAPHICAL NAMES IN TANZANIA </h>
\par <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 Introduction </h>}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 The gazettement of geographical names for use on maps in Tanzania is not a new phenomenon. <#/>Already a British E
ast Africa Gazetteer for Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika and Zanzibar was published in 1956. <#/>The gazetteer for Tanzania was produced thirteen years later. <#/>The names for the Tanzania gazetteer (1969) were supplied by the United States Geographic Names Bu
r
eau by transferring geographical names from old edition maps. <#/>The surveys and Mapping Division of the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development was approving the geographical names for <-/adoptation> and printing on the new edition maps of Tanz
ania.
\par <#/>The density of geographical names in an area increases with the intensity of socio-economic change. <#/>Changes in development generate new names and lead to revision of old editions of existing maps. <#/>The density of geographical names is also 
associated with the amount of detail and scale of the map. <#/>While all named features in a desert area can be adequately displayed at a scale of 1:250,000, thinly populated and relatively undeveloped areas require maps at a scale of 1:100,000. <#/>Areas
 
of medium population density and levels of development require maps at a scale of 1:50,000. <#/>Area of high population density and relatively high levels of socio-economic development require maps at a scale of 1:25,000. <#/>Map for urban areas must be l
a
rge enough to show individual streets and other land uses. <#/>Map scales of 1:10,000 and 1:2,500 are the most appropriate. <#/>It is, however, generally accepted that, the basic map scales for field work in collecting geographical names in rural areas be
 1:50,000 and 1:10,000 or 1:2,500 in urban areas.
\par <#/>The transfer of geographical names from old maps onto new edition ones is unsatisfactory. <#/>It pleads to, not only names being applied to wrong features, but also leads to new names being <-/ommitted> 
completely. <#/>The longer a name remains in use incorrectly the more difficult it becomes to change. <#/>These problems are particularly true for a country like Tanzania at a formative stage of development, lacking complete coverage of basic topographica
l mapping and having many indigenous languages without text books of grammar or dictionaries. <#/>The National Geographical Names standardisation Committee was established by the Geographical Names Standardisation }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>orth }{
\fs24\lang2057 act No. 23 of 1982, to <-/advice> the Ministry for Lands, Housing }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>orth }{\fs24\lang2057 
land Urban Development (or the appropriate Minister), on the correct geographical names and names spellings, to be adopted and published on maps in Tanzania, having due regard to their historical, <-/orthographical>
 and ethnic considerations. <#/>The tasks of the Committee range from determination of orthography, variations of forms of names in use in areas occupied by minority linguistic groups, commemorative names, names with same meaning but written in local and 
foreign languages, description of features and compilation of glossaries to a determination of names designations.
\par <#/>This paper is an initial attempt to propose a procedure for the collection of geographical names in the field, preparation of place names 
lists for checking by consultants, principles for accepting the spelling of place names on maps by the National Geographical Names Standardisation Committee of Tanzania and finally to recommend final stages of work in documenting geographical names for ga
zettement in Tanzania.
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 Collection and Preparation of Geographical Names in the Field </h>}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 Collection of Geographical Names in the field}{\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 The task of collecting geographical names in the field, processing through to printing on new edition maps and maintaining records should be presided over by the Ministry of Lands, Water, Housing and Urban Development.
\par <#/>The supporting workforce for the collection of geographical names in the field should be undertaken by the surveys and Mapping 
Division, as part of the normal mapping and map-updating schedule, of the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development. <#/>Now that mapping and map-updating are done by photogrammetric and remote sensing techniques collection of geographical names in
 the field should be a separate exercise.
\par <#/>The optimum personnel requirements for successful collection of geographical names in the field include a land surveyor, local guide and resident inhabitants. <#/>The initial collection and preparation of geogra
phical names in the field should be done by a land surveyor or topographer. <#/>The land surveyor requires some mechanical means of transportation to speed up his work in the field. <#/>The land surveyor will require the assistance of a local guide who kn
o
ws the geography and language of the area being surveyed. <#/>The land surveyor must collect the geographical names by local inquiry. <#/>A National Geographical Names Documentation Form (NGNDF) has been prepared. <#/>The Topographer should make entries i
n the appropriate columns on the form. <#/>In order to facilitate consistency the following procedure should be followed:
\par <#/>(a)\tab }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 If the local written forms of geographical names in the area are available he should copy them. <#/>If the written forms o
f geographical names in an area are not available, the topographer should record what he hears, using Kiswahili orthography. <#/>The land surveyor's spellings should be checked by local resident inhabitants whose recommendations, together with information
 
on language, meaning and alternative names, should be recorded. <#/>By questioning a sufficient number of local resident inhabitants the land surveyor will be able to insert the geographical names in their correct position on the map. <#/>Current usage of
 
geographical names for features in an area should <-/outweight> historical evidence. <#/>Where there is doubt, on the correct name of geographical features, alternative names should be recorded on the map in parenthesis, after the name commanding the most
 support.
\par <#/>(b)\tab In making the entries on the NGNDF the topographer should start in the north-west corner of the map and work east across the top row of grid squares listing all names in each grid square in turn.
\par <#/>(c)\tab The topographer should work west to east along all the rows of grid squares of the field map until the whole map is covered.
\par <#/>(d)\tab Features names extending over several grid squares should be entered in the square in which the initial letter of the name occurs.
\par <#/>(e)\tab Entries may be made in columns 5, 6 and 7 if known.
\par <#/>(f)\tab Columns 4 and 8 must be left blank.
\par <#/>(g)\tab About half an inch should be left between each entry on the form to allow room for comments later, if required.
\par <#/>(h)\tab The topographer should hand in their data to the National Cartographic Office for onward transmission to the draughtsmen.
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 Preparation of Geographical Names Lists for Checking by Consultants.</h>}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 A list of geographical names, <-/induplicate>, should be prepared for each 1:50,000 1:10,000; 1:2,5
00 topographical sheet, using data collected by local topographical inquiry, by two draughtsmen working independently. <#/>In order to facilitate check }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>grammar}{\fs24\lang2057  the following procedure should be followed:
\par <#/>(a)\tab }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 The draughtsman should start listing geographical names in the north-west corner of the map.
\par <#/>(b)\tab Then the draughtsman should work east across the top row of grid squares listing all names in each grid square in turn.
\par <#/>(c)\tab The draughtsman should work west to east along all the rows of grid squares until the whole map is covered.
\par <#/>(d)\tab Features names extending over several grid squares should be listed against the square in which the initial latter of the name occurs.
\par <#/>(e)\tab Map reference should be given using four figures only.
\par <#/>(f)\tab Occupiers of areas should not be entered on the lists.
\par <#/>(g)\tab Descriptions of unnamed features like Dams, Boreholes, Cattle Dips and Factories should not be entered on the lists.
\par <#/>(h)\tab If a name refers to more than one feature at one place all features should be mentioned in one entry.
\par <#/>(i)\tab If the same name appears for several features in several places then each should be listed in separate lines.
\par <#/>(j)\tab If a feature in one square ends its name in another, the name should be listed in the square in which the feature is located.
\par <#/>(k)\tab In the event that a topographical map sheet has more than one administrative division, then, the list must deal with one administrative division first. <#/>A new form must be used for names in the other administrative division.
\par <#/>(l)\tab The lists drawn up by two draughtsmen, working independently, should be compared and corrected. <#/>After comparison and correction the two lists should be passed on to the Secretariat of the National Geographical Names Standardisatio
n Committee of Tanzania. <#/>The Secretary of the National Geographical Names Standardisation Committee will then convene a meeting of the National Geographical Names Standardisation Committee members, to discuss the names for <-/adoptation> on the maps o
f Tanzania.
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 Principles Guiding the Geographical Names Standardisation Committee in Accepting Place Names Spellings on the Maps of Tanzania </h>}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 1.\tab The Kiswahili Orthography, in the }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>orth }{\fs24\lang2057 latin alphabet as set out in standard grammars and dictionaries, should be primarily used to name geographical features on the maps of Tanzania.

\par <#/>2.\tab Tanzanian vernacular names may be accepted, but the names should be so written, that when pronounced according to <+_the> rules of Kiswahili <-/pronounciation>, they sound as nearly as possible correct.
\par <#/>3.\tab Where the spelling of a geographical name in local orthography has become established by usage, it should be adopted. <#/>The correct spelling of the name in vernacular must be given and recorded by the Na
tional Geographical Names Standardisation Committee }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>orth }{\fs24\lang2057 secretariat. <#/>The NGNSC Secretariat must seek the international phonetic symbols for the name accepted.
\par <#/>4.\tab Foreign imported names into the country shall be written as originally spelt.
\par <#/>5.\tab Private names shall be written as originally spelt.
\par <#/>6.\tab Established wrong spellings for certain names in the country for towns, railway stations and other features, which have been in use for a long time, should not be corrected, but where there is 
a major difference, the correct spelling should be given in parenthesis on the map.
\par <#/>7.\tab Consonants should not be doubled unless there is a special stress: <-/eg.> Serengetti should be written Serengeti.
\par <#/>8.\tab Descriptions of rivers and other features should not be recorded as part of the name.
\par <#/>9.\tab Diacritical marks, apostrophes and hyphens, which may be confused with topographical detail, should not be printed on maps.
\par <#/>10.\tab Alternative names of features, which occur in more than one vernacular, should be recognised and recorded.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx708\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>11.\tab Wherever they are known, the language, derivation and meaning of all names adopted, should be recorded.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 <-h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 Final Stages of Work in Gazettement of Geographical Names for Printing on Maps of Tanzania </h>}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 
The final stages of work in the gazettement of geographical names include the recommendations of the NGNSC to the Minister for Lands, Water, Housing and Urban Development; publication of names lists in the government gazette; entry of place names in a car
d index for storage and printing of place names on maps.
\par <#/>The National Geographical Names Standardisation Committee shall advice the Minister for Lands, Water, Housing and Urban Development (or the appropriate Minister) on the spelling of all geographica
l names on maps of Tanzania having due regard to their historical, <-/orthographical> and ethnic considerations. <#/>The NGNSC <-_had><+_has> advisory powers only. <#/>It can recommend names and spellings to be published on maps, but it cannot enforce the
ir <-/adoptation> in other spheres of activities.
\par <#/>All names approved by the NGNSC shall be sent to the Minister for Lands, Water }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>punct}{\fs24\lang2057  Housing and Urban Development for approval and publication. <#/>Sufficient time should be set aside to deal with o
bjections and recommendations from the public and other interested parties. <#/>These observations must be dealt with adequately by the NGNSC members.
\par <#/>A card must be created for each approved name by the committee. <#/>The cards must be sorted and stor
ed alphabetically. <#/>An alphabetic list for publication in the Gazettee must be made stating the map sheet, district, name and feature to which it refers.
\par <#/>Copies of approved names lists should be supplied to the government Cartographic office, to ent
er changes on the revision copies of maps. <#/>Copies of the maps and approved names lists, should be sent to the Gazetteer for printing of maps in Tanzania. <#/>The cards must then be put away alphabetically in index cabinets.
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 Some}{\fs24\lang2057  }{\b\fs24\lang2057 Organisational}{\fs24\lang2057  }{\b\fs24\lang2057 and Technical}{\fs24\lang2057  }{\b\fs24\lang2057 Problems}{\fs24\lang2057  }{\b\fs24\lang2057 
Needing Attention by the NGNSC </h>}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 Organisational Problems </h>}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 The National Geographical Names Standardisation Committee cannot encompass among its membership sufficient geographical and linguistic knowledge to decide
 on the correctness of position and spelling of all the names on national maps. <X}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
_><#/>This task could partly be delegated to regional geographical names standardisation committees. <#/>This arrangement could do away with initial ambiguities and objections likely to emerge after the names have been published.
\par <#/>The National Geographical Names Standardisation Committee should prepare and lay down policy and general principles, prepare work programmes, coordinate, compare and approve the contribution done 
by the Regional Geographical Names Standardisation Committees. <#/>The NGNSC should be able to arrange for publication of approved names, deal adequately and quickly with objections and ensure that finally adopted names are brought into official use. <#/>
T
o perform these functions the NGNSC must have authority written into national legislation. It must have adequate resources and have the autonomy to use these resources to further the work programmes determined by it without <-/interferences> from other go
vernment departments.
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <h> }{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 Technical Problems </h>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par <#/>The NGNSC must do research in the country and seek opinion of established similar committees in neighbouring countries or elsewhere, in order to issue a principle which will be followed in deciding 
upon names of geographical features which, hitherto, have not been named.
\par <#/>The NGNSC should decide upon a principle to be followed in deciding upon variations of forms of names in use in areas occupied by minority <-/linguistics> groups in the country. 
<#/>This is important in areas where no formal written forms of language exist, <-/eg.> <#/>In Maasailand there exist the Uaso, Waso, Ewaso and Ewuaso forms, all meaning a river. <#/>The Standing Committee on the Standardisation of Geographical Names in K
enya has adopted the last variation. <#/>Tanzania will have to come up with an agreed upon variation. <#/>This should apply in all neighbouring geographical zones where ethnic groups cross the national boundaries.
\par <#/>The NGNSC should seek assistance and clarification on how to deal with <-/commerative> names.
\par <#/>The NGNSC should seek advice on what to do in changing established names.
\par <#/>The NGNSC should find out what to do with names having the same meaning but written in several languages.<-/eg.> Uhuru Street vs Independence }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>orth }{\v\fs24\lang2057 avenue.
\par <#/>The NGNSC should find out from the authorities in Zanzibar on how to deal with variations in names. <#/>A market remains a Soko on the Tanzania mainland but a market is a Marikiti on the Islands.
\par <#/>The NGNSC should deal adequately with the problem of definition of geographical entities and compilation of glossaries. <-/eg.> <#/>In proper English a dam refers to a bank of stone or earth which <-/empound> }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>grammar}{
\v\fs24\lang2057  water. In Kenya, a dam refers to the water itself. <#/>What should Tanzania adopt?
\par <#/>The NGNSC must find a principle to deal with names designations. <#/>Generally the generic term is <-/ommitted> from maps, because, it refers to a feature, which is self-evident. <#/>Problems arise when the specific part of the name is an adjective.

\par e.g. Mwamba Rubanda cannot be written as Mwamba.
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <h> }{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 SUMMARY </h>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par <#/>The paper has shown the procedure of collecting geographical names in the field, preparing geographical names lists for checking by consultants, pr
inciples to be followed in accepting place names spellings, final stages of work in gazettement of geographical names for printing on maps in Tanzania and some organisational and technical bottlenecks which should be solved. <#/>These ideas have been prop
osed as a guide, to the national geographical names standardisation committee, to enhance the gazettement of geographical names in Tanzania. }{\fs24\lang2057 </X></I>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx5954\adjustright {\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Dr. W. F. Banyikwa, Dept. of Geography, University of Dar es Salaam
\par In: }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 Journal of the Geographical Association of Tanzania}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057  Nr. 26, Dec 1991(74-84) </&>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs24\lang2057 W2A005T
\par </I> <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 THE INTELLECTUAL AND DEMOCRATIC STRUGGLES AGAINST THE IDEOLOGY OF DEVELOPMENTALISM IN TANZANIA </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 THIS paper is intended to analyse the role of the Tanzanian intellectual in the 
process of struggles for democracy in the context of struggles against the ideology of developmentalism. <#/>Special focus will be made on the struggle of the intellectual in the form of production of theories and knowledge on democracy and democratizatio
n
 processes. <#/>The paper shows three stages or phases of the struggle. <#/>The first is the struggle for "nationalist" democracy during which the intellectual is contradictorily involved in the development and consolidation of the ideology of development
a
lism. <#/>The second is the state of struggle against the ideology of developmentalism through theories of underdevelopment, materialism and liberalism. <#/>The third constitutes the present stage of struggle in which an explicit intellectual debate on de
mocracy and the democratization process is being carried out.
\par <#/>The central argument of the paper entails two scenarios. <#/>One scenario constitutes the argument that the changing forms of intellectual democratic struggles during the three phases is a pr
oduct of contradictions inherent within the ideology of developmentalism. <#/>The other scenario provides a critique to the nature and character of struggles during the current phase by pointing out the weaknesses and shortcomings of the theoretical frame
work of the struggle, and hence providing suggestions for its further development.
\par <h> <#/>Struggles for "Nationalist Democracy" </h>
\par In essence struggles for "nationalist" democracy were anti-colonial and anti-neocolonial struggles. <#/>As anti-colonial s
truggles they began with the rise of African nationalism after the Second World War when African people in the colonies decided to struggle for national independence by dismantling colonial states and establishing independent nation states. <#/>In Tanzani
a
 the rise of nationalist consciousness and struggle came to be crystalized through the formation of nationalist political parties such as TANU in Tanganyika and ASP in Zanzibar, leading to the attainment of independence in December 1961 and the Zanzibar R
evolution in January 1964 respectively.
\par <#/>After independence nationalist struggles took the form of anti-neocolonial struggles. <#/>First, nationalist consciousness became an instrument of eradicating colonial legacy politically, economically, socially an
d culturally, thus the concept of cultural decolonization. <#/>Second, nationalist consciousness was also supposed to play the role of an instrument of struggle against tendencies of the ex-colonial and other imperialist powers of extending neocolonial do
mination and exploitation.
\par <#/>However, both phases of struggle are characterized as struggles for "nationalist" democracy because of the following reasons. <#/>First, that the colonial system was an autocratic, oppressive and exploitative system imposed on
 the people of African colonies. <#/>It was therefore an undemocratic system. <#/>Thus nationalist anti\-
colonial struggles that were waged through the unity of all classes were in essence nationalist struggles for a democratic system. <#/>Second, that the 
process of eradicating colonial legacy and struggles against tendencies of neocolonial practices were also forms of nationalist democratic struggles as they were an extension of anti-colonial struggles. <#/>Since both phases of the struggle were guided by
 
consciousness and ideology of nationalism, we therefore characterize the democratic struggle as a struggle for "nationalist" democracy, a form of democracy to be achieved through national independence (including political, economic, social and cultural in
dependence) and national unity.
\par <#/>As a theory, nationalist democracy was first developed by political intellectuals who provided leadership in the nationalist struggle for independence and who became leaders of the independent nation states in Africa. <#/
>Mwl. J.K. Nyerere was very instrumental in that development as he was the architect of the theory of "African democracy" (Nyerere 1964). <#/>In his conception of African democracy Nyerere argued that that form of democracy was different from the Western 
form of democracy based on the multi-party system. <#/>African democracy was to be based on the traditional African past characterized by participation and unity, and therefore absence of political competition.
\par <#/>Nyerere saw that implementation of the the
ory of African democracy could best be carried out through the institution of African socialism. <#/>Like African democracy the theory of African Socialism was based on the way of life of the traditional African Society based on communal relations of prod
u
ction. <#/>The link between African democracy and African socialism was conceived to be such that democracy could not be achieved without socialism and vice versa (Nyerere 1962). <#/>It was also conceived that African democracy and African socialism would
 facilitate the development of national unity, thus the slogan, "freedom and unity". <#/>The one-party system was therefore seen as a necessary condition for the achievement of African democracy, African socialism and national unity.
\par <#/>Thus the theory of 
nationalist democracy evolved within the context of the complex of the ideology of African nationalism incorporating the various aspects discussed earlier. <#/>It has to be noted that the theory of nationalist democracy did not only develop in Tanzania bu
t
 elsewhere in Africa thus giving rise to the spread of the adoption of one-party system in most African countries soon or later after the attainment of national independence. <#/>It came to be articulated through different ideological contexts such as Afr
ican Socialism in Kenya, Humanism in Zambia, consciencism in Ghana and Common Man's Charter in Uganda.
\par <#/>Given the mood of independence intellectuals, particularly some academicians in the University of Dar es Salaam (commonly referred to as "The Hill") p
layed a significant role in the development and consolidation of the theory of nationalist democracy. <#/>For instance the Department of History and the Historical Association of Tanzania carried out a series of research and studies related to nationalist
 
democracy explicitly or implicitly. <#/>Research and studies were carried out on nationalist and other forms of anti-colonial struggles such as the Maji Maji uprising, and on precolonial African political institutions in order to discover forms of African
 democracy.
\par <#/>Such research and studies gave rise to an intellectual debate which came to be regarded as the Dar es Salaam School (Kimambo 1992. Shivji 1993). <#/>The main content of the debate was to show that Africans were capable of establishing and de
veloping their own political, economic and social institutions without the need for colonialism. <#/>This was therefore regarded as an aspect of African initiative (Kimambo ibid).
\par <#/>The nationalist intellectual debate at the Hill culminating into a numbe
r of publications in the 1960s made considerable contribution to the development and consolidation of the theory of nationalist democracy. <#/>This means that both politicians and intellectuals formed a common front in the struggle for such democracy. <#/
>But by the late 60s and early 70s contradictions began to develop within the common front.
\par <#/>What happened was that while the intellectuals were carrying out their studies and debates in order to develop and consolidate democracy among Tanzanian people s
o as to realize the achievements of independence, the ruling class was busy transforming nationalist consciousness into an ideology of "developmentalism". <#/>The ideology of "developmentalism" therefore became a ruling class ideology used to consolidate 
the political and economic position of national leaders and thus advance their interests.
\par <#/>We could therefore regard the ideology of "developmentalism" as an ideology of African nationalism transformed to serve the interests of the ruling class rather th
an advance the interests of the masses who had joined hands with the nationalist leaders in a democratic struggle for independence. <#/>Thus, instead of emancipating the people nationalism now became a tool of alienation, domination and exploitation.

\par <#/>T
hrough the ideology of "developmentalism" the theory of nationalist democracy could not be developed into an instrument of achieving democracy but rather it became an instrument of stifling democracy. <#/>Elsewhere in Africa it became an instrument of est
ablishing authoritarian one-party regimes that negated the very objectives of the struggle for independence.
\par <#/>The ideology of developmentalism has been emphasizing socio and economic development and national unity at the expense of democracy. <#/>It has 
therefore been argued that through the ideology of developmentalism African states have neglected to provide a linkage between democracy and economic development by asserting that political order and stability, and not democracy, were a precondition for e
c
onomic development, growth and prosperity (Mandaza and Sachikonye 1991). <#/>In other words according to African politicians development and national unity should come first before democracy (ibid). <#/>As a result there has been close correlation between
 lack of democracy and deteriorating economic conditions in Africa (Anyang Nyong'o, 1987).
\par <#/>Given such contradictions the nationalist debate at the Hill and elsewhere in Africa could not continue. <#/>Some intellectuals began to criticise the nationalist
 school as well as policies of African states. <#/>Such a critique became more and more rigorous with the penetration of the theory of dependency or underdevelopment by late 1960s and early 1970s. <#/>Thus intellectual struggles for democracy entered the 
second phase, the phase of democratic struggles against the ideology of developmentalism through theories of underdevelopment, materialism and liberalism.
\par <h> <#/>Intellectual Struggles Through Theories of Underdevelopment </h>
\par }{\fs24\ul\lang2057 <h> <#/>Materialism and Liberalism: </h>}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 
The period between 1970 and mid-1980s experienced three phases of intellectual struggles for democracy through the three types of theoretical framework, notably underdevelopment, materialism and liberalism. <#/>The theory of underdevelopm
ent dominated intellectual studies and debates during the first half of the 70s. <#/>The adoption of the theory of underdevelopment or dependency theory was a product of a crisis of the nationalist theory which, as we have observed had dominated studies a
n
d debates at the Hill in the 1960s. <#/>The crisis was a product of two main factors. <#/>One was the collapse of the alliance between intellectuals and politicians at the level of nationalist theory and ideology. <#/>The collapse of the alliance was due 
t
o divergence of interests, with the politicians and the growing administrative bureaucracy getting more and more involved in the process of personal accumulation and thus diverting the nationalist ideology to their own advantage thus transforming it into 
a
n ideology of developmentalism. <#/>Thus intellectuals began to view the ruling class as growing into a nationalist bourgeoisie, and the nationalist theory as a bourgeois nationalist theory (Slater 1970). <#/>Worse still the intellectual also viewed the e
merging nationalist bourgeoisie as too weak and dependent to carry out a national bourgeois transformation.
\par <#/>The other factor was the Arusha Declaration which officially declared the policy of socialism and self-reliance. <#/>The intellectuals found the 
nationalist theory, particularly given its bourgeois character, as unsuitable for carrying out socialist transformation. <#/>Thus the Arusha Declaration facilitated the growth of greater critique on nationalist theory (Kimambo op. cit.).
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \lang2057 <#/>The underdevel
opment theory was mainly concerned with explaining the dependence relationship between international capitalism and periphery capitalism in the Third World. <#/>Development of underdevelopment was viewed as the main feature of relationship between periphe
r
y capitalism and international capitalism. <#/>Thus the solution was seen to be the process of disengagement or delinking on the part of Third World countries from international capitalism. <#/>Developing socialism was viewed as an important strategy for 
the process of delinking.
\par \pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 
<#/>However, during the second half of the 1970s the underdevelopment theory came to be challenged by the materialist school which criticized the underdevelopment theory on the basis of neglecting class dynamics within the Third Wo
rld countries by merely emphasizing the relationship between the centre and the periphery. <#/>Among the factors which facilitated the emergence of intellectual debates in Tanzania on the basis of materialist theory were contradictions arising out of clas
s
 formation and growing social differentiation and contradictions arising out of the implementation of the Arusha Declaration. <#/>Thus it is not surprising that studies and debates based on this theory were mainly characterized by class analysis and advoc
ating the adoption of scientific socialism as a solution to the growing socio-economic problems of the society.
\par <#/>With the growing economic crisis particularly from late 1970s through the first half of the 1980s liberalization theory began to gain strengt
h among some Tanzanian intellectuals. <#/>Rightist intellectuals who had occupied a weak position during the 70s began to come to the fore and gained strength during the 80s partly due to the growing influence of the World Bank and the IMF. <#/>Socialism 
w
as looked upon as the main cause of the economic crisis and adoption of the Structural Adjustment policies of the WB and the IMF was taken as the solution to the crisis. <#/>An alliance developed between the liberal intellectuals and liberal politicians, 
thus facilitating the adoption of IMF and WB programmes from mid-1980s.
\par <#/>However, in terms of democratic struggles intellectual studies and debates on underdevelopment, materialism and liberalism were characterized by three main weaknesses or shortcomings. <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
<#/>The studies and debates arising out of them were too <-/economistic>. <#/>Although there were discussions on the neo-colonial state, generally speaking debates on politics and institutions of political system were somehow marginalized in relatio
n to debates on economic structures both internally and internationally. <#/>For instance the History Department and the Historical Association of Tanzania which were in the forefront in carrying out studies on African political institutions during the 19
60s, during the 1970s they came to be mainly concerned with studies on colonial economic structures thus examining the system of underdevelopment.
\par <#/>The second shortcomings was that the studies and debates were mainly confined at the intellectual level, w
ith little links with the masses. <#/>The working people were not passive during all this period. <#/>Workers had been involved in different forms of struggles including strikes and locking out industrial managers. <#/>Peasants had uprooted coffee and ref
u
sed to produce traditional cash crops, and took to the production of alternative crops etc. <#/>But despite all that the intellectuals could not facilitate a link between their debates and the struggles of the working people in order to effect a common an
d effective struggle against the ideology of developmentalism.
\par <#/>The third shortcoming resulting from the two weaknesses is the absence of explicit effort to develop a theory or theories on democracy which could situate the struggles within the context of
 a democratization process. <#/>In most of the debates the concept of democracy did not appear as an important issue thus in implication succumbing to the footsteps of the ideology of developmentalism which advocated national unity and development before 
d
emocracy. <#/>As a result the theories of the 70s and early 80s could not offer a serious challenge to the ideology of developmentalism and the interests it served because they were not associated with explicit democratization struggles. <#/>It was not un
t
il the late 1980s that explicit struggles for democracy began to appear as an important phenomenon when serious economic crisis had given rise to serious political crisis, and particularly a crisis of one-party political system advanced through the ideolo
gy of developmentalism.
\par <h> <#/>Intellectuals in the New Struggles for Democracy </h>
\par <#/>The period from the late 1980s to the present has witnessed a new era in the struggle for democracy not only in Tanzania but Africa as a whole. <#/>The struggles have mainly taken the form of demands and movements for the multi\-
party system. <#/>Consequently many African countries including Tanzania have undergone or are involved in the process of transition from one\-party into multi-party political system..
\par <#/>These 
changes are a product of a number of factors. <#/>Central to the factors is the sharpening of contradictions inherent within the ideology of developmentalism and the system it has been supporting. <#/>The peak of the economic crisis by mid-1980s was seen 
t
o be due to the monolithic one-party system which denied people democratic freedom to express different views on the process of social and economic development. <#/>SAPs of the World Bank and IMF accelerated grievances and discontents among the masses who
 
have been adversely affected by these programmes. <#/>Liberalization of the economy which in Tanzania began with trade liberalization as early as 1984 facilitated greater growth of polarization of classes with diverse class and group interests. <#/>Thus l
iberalization of economy created conditions that demanded a corresponding liberalization of }{\i\v\fs24\lang2057 po}{\v\fs24\lang2057 litical life.
\par <#/>In Tanzania new democratic struggles and demands for the democratization process began as early as 1983 through debates and demands for constitut
ional changes (Shivji 1993), as part of the growth of liberal theoretical framework. <#/>However, by late 1980s de\-
mands for a multi-party democratic system took a much more explicit form. <#/>The situation was sparked by struggles of the people in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union for a democratization process leading into the collapse of com\-
munist states between 1989 and 1991. <#/>By 1991 the number of political groups and movements increased, and the situation compelled the Government to form a Presid
ential Commission on multi-party or one-party system. <#/>Recommendations of the Commission resulted into official adoption of the multi-party political system by July, 1992.4
\par <#/>Intellectuals also grew conscious of the new current of political changes. <#/>A series of debates through discussions, seminars, work\-shops and conferences have been carried out during this period. <#/>By 1989 a series of discus\-
sions on the implications of Perestroika and Glasnost on the political situation in Africa were carrie
d out. <#/>An election study carried out by the University of Dar es Salaam during the 1990 parliamentary and Presidential Elections culminated into reports which came to be dis\-
cussed in a workshop in November. 1991. <#/>The reports were very critical of the undemocratic nature of the elections due to the one-party political system.' <#/>Since then to date the Depart\-ment of Political Science and Public Adminis\-
tration has systematically continued with stud\-ies on education for democracy resulting into the
 organization of a number of seminars and workshops the last of which was recently held at the Kilimanjaro Hotel on the "State of Politics in Tanzania". <#/>Other initiatives in the process of the debate, to mention just a few example, include the Septemb
er 1,090 Confer\-
ence on "Party System and Democracy in Tanzania" organized by the Tanganyika Law Society, and the Conference in March 1991 on "One-Party Versus Multi-Party Democracy in Tanzania" organized by the Development Studies Institute (DSI) at the So
koine University of Agriculture in Morogoro (SUA).
\par <#/>It has to be noted, however, that the debate on democracy and multipartism among Tanzanian intellectuals is part of a wider debate on the issue in Africa as a whole. <#/>For instance Tanzanian intellec
tuals have actively participated through both organization and presentation of papers in a number of international conferences, seminars and workshops. <#/>In November 1991 a number of Tanzanian academics were involved in the discussion on "Multi\-
Party Dem
ocracy, Civil Society and Economic Transformation in Southern Africa," in Namibia.' <#/>In January 1993 AAPS organized an international conference in Dar es Salaam, a conference that drew prominent academics from within and outside Africa. <#/>As late as 
J
une 1993 another international conference was organized by USARP in Arusha which drew intellectuals and representatives of political parties from countries in Southern Africa. <#/>The focus of all these discussions is multipartism or the party system, dem
ocracy and the democratization process.
\par <#/>It has been observed that much of the debate on democracy and democratization process has mainly been characterized by the liberal democracy theoretical framework(Mandaza and Sachikone, op. cit. and Shivji, ibid).
 <#/>Even the emphasis that has been placed on democracy in terms of multi-partism is seen as a product of this theoretical framework. <#/>The theory on liberal democracy is characterized by emphasis on the party system, relationship be\-
tween important organs of the state, the consti\-tution, freedoms of speech and the press and on questions of human rights (Shivji, ibid).
\par <#/>It has further been observed that the liberal forms of democracy which are being emphasized in the current debate cannot effect a rea
l democratization process not only among Tanzanian society but among societies in other African countries. <#/>This is so because liberal democracy is historically a product of the development of capitalism in the West and therefore it is suitable to the 
c
onditions of the Western Societies where liberal democracy functions as an ideology of a well-developed bourgeois class. <#/>Even in the West it has not succeeded to bring real democracy to the working people. <#/>Thus the situation in African and other T
h
ird World Countries is such that liberal democracy will simply bring democracy to the different groups and functions of the petty-bourgeoisie and compradorial bourgeoisies while the working people will continue to get more and more marginalized, dominated
 
and exploited. <#/>A recent study carried out by Mmuya and Chaligha on the new political parties in Tanzania has exposed some fundamental weaknesses and shortcomings on the policy and ideological leanings or positions of the new political parties such tha
t it poses questions on the viability of a number of them in becoming institutions of democratization and development (Mmuya and Chaligha, 1992).
\par <#/>Among the intellectuals both within and outside Tanzania there has emerged a cri\-tique on the debate charac
terized by liberal democratic tendencies. <#/>Three levels of the critique can be identified. <#/>The first level is concerned with going beyond liberal democratic ideas by combining democracy and development. <#/>It is argued that debating on democracy a
nd the democratization process purely at the political level is likely to result into the production of theories on democracy that will be effective in the democratization process.
\par <#/>Since the theory and ideology of developmentalism with its application t
hrough the one-party authoritarian rule has failed to effect socio-economic development in Africa, the solution for such development in African countries lies with establishing democratic societies (Mmuya 1992). <#/>This means that a democratic theory sho
uld be developed in such a way that it should be able to serve as an instrument of development.
\par <#/>The second level is concerned with the idea that real democracy in Africa can only be achieved if the democratization process is characterized by the strugg
le of the popular masses or classes. <#/>On this aspect it has been emphasized that the foundation of democracy is autonomy of the civil society, and that "democratic struggles from the stand-point of the popular classes of Africa ought to be new demo\-
cratic struggles, i.e. democratic struggles with the perspective of a New Democratic Revolu\-tion" (Shivji, 1989). <#/>This means that the workers and peasants should be the forces of the new democratic revolution in. Africa.
\par <#/>The third level goes beyond the
 popular classes as being merely a driving force for the democratization process and advocates that the "objective pre-condition of a democratic political life is the emergence of free producers that is free peasants, artisans and workers (Mandaza 1991, o
p
. cit.); and that the free producers must fully participate in the political, economic and cultural life of the society and that such participation will be the basis for socialist democracy (Makamure 1991). <#/>This means that the democratization process 
in Africa can only be effective if it is carried out within the context of socialist principles.
\par 
\par <h> <#/>Conclusion </h>
\par 
\par <#/>The three levels of critiques to liberal ideas on democracy are central to our discus\-sion in this paper. <#/>They show that theories or ideas on liberal democracy which tend to domi\-
nate debates on democracy and multipartism in Tanzania and in other African countries can hardly bring real democracy and effect socio\-economic development. <#/>In other words they can hardly provide an
 effective instrument in the struggle against the ideology of developmentalism. <#/>Thus what is required is for the intellectuals to develop a revolutionary theory of democracy.
\par <#/>Our view is that the ideas that have been generated at the three levels i
n moving beyond liberal democracy are incomplete. <#/>The idea of full participation of the working people or classes in political, economic and cultural life, the idea of struggles of the popular classes and the idea of providing linkage between democrac
y and development are not very new because they are ideas which were developed in connection with socialist systems that have experienced a seri\-
ous crisis. The crisis has been mainly due to the fact the ideas existed only at the level of theory while in practice the popular classes were marginalized from the democratic process.
\par <#/>So what is required now is to develop a theory on democracy which first goes beyond liberal democracy and secondly advocates the centrality of the struggle of the working people 
in the democratization process and eventually the development of-democratic socialism by avoiding the theoretical weaknesses and short\-
comings of classical socialism. <#/>Such a task demands two important aspects. <#/>First, there is need to avoid both the developmentalist and classical socialist perspective which has tended to put development and socialism as precondi\-
tions for the development of democracy. <#/>The new perspective should be that democracy should be a precondition for development and social
ism. <#/>Thus democracy should be developed through the struggle of the popular classes and then through it development and socialism should be achieved. <#/>The second aspect constitutes the fact that there is need to develop a new direction in the produ
c
tion of new theories on democracy and that direction should provide a clear link between democracy and socialism, and in the context of Tanzania there should be a link between democracy, multi-partism and socialism and self-reliance. <#/>Such direction ca
lls for not only special commitment on the part of the Tanzanian intellectuals but more so it calls for new style of studies and debates which brings the intellectuals closer to the working people struggling for democracy.}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>
\par </I>
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>G.P. Mpangala. November 1994. Dar es Salaam Alumni Newsletter (6-9)
\par THE INTELLECTUAL AND DEMOCRATIC STRUGGLES AGAINST THE IDEOLOGY OF DEVELOPMENTALISM IN TANZANIA</&>
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 W2A006T
\par <I> <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 3.0. A PREDICTIVE MODEL OF CHARISMATIC LEADERSHIP </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Models are abstractions of com
plex situations, distilling the essential factors, ingredients, and their interrelationships. <#/>As for charismatic leadership, there is lack of the understanding of predictors or factors with which to predict whether one is charismatic in leadership or 
not. <#/>Hence there is a need to build a predictive model of charismatic leadership.
\par <#/>Unfortunately at the present our attempts to build a reliable model of charismatic leadership face very tough difficulties, chiefly because of the paucity of empirical
 data available for guidance. <#/>Therefore the model set forth here is more on the exploratory level than otherwise. <#/>It is hoped that the resulting experience from testing will allow future researchers to build a more substantive model of charismatic
 leadership.
\par <#/>Note that predictors may be or may not be causes! <#/>Therefore the development of a predictive model of predictors is just a step towards causal modelling.
\par <#/>The model proposed here consists of two parts (see Figure 1):
\par 1) antecedents of charismatic leadership, and 2) outcomes of charismatic leadership. <#/>When the available literature <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (i.e., Conger and Kanungo, 1987; 1988; 1990) }{\fs24\lang2057 
</X> is "read between the lines" it becomes apparent that predictors of charismatic leadership can be found throughout the organization\rquote 
s work environment influenced by leadership. <#/>For the sake of parsimony, these influences are grouped into three main categories: personal demographics of the leader, task related\_behavioural patterns of the leader and org
anizational climate created by the leader.
\par <h> <#/>3.1 Personal Demographic Characteristics </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Personal demographic characteristics are background parameters that constitute what a person has become.
\par <#/>Personal demographics consists of those direc
tly measurable/overt variables which define the individual (leader). <#/>For instance, charismatic leadership is likely to be positively related or associated with: age, education, poor family background, tenure in the organization, and one's need for aff
iliation and achievement (see Table 5.3 (a)).
\par <h> <#/>3.1.1 Age </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Advancing age makes the leader more objective in decision making. <#/>Because of the long life experience gained over the years he tends to make wiser decisions generalizing from part
icular incidents. <#/>As age advances it becomes easier to learn from his subordinates and superiors because of the experience gained. <#/>Therefore if he has been working with charismatic leaders in the organization, for a long period of time, then he is
 likely to assume charismatic characteristics because organizations, to some extent, "brainwash" their people, trying to develop common attitudes that simplify managing and because of the long life experience gained over the years <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
[Hellriegel, Slocum, and Woodman, 1986; Leavitt, 1978]}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>. <#/>Gordon Allport defined the word attitude as:<quote_>
\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 "a mental and neural state of readiness, organized through experience, exerting a directive or dynamic influence upon the individual's response to all objects and situations with which it related" [Brown, 1984] .}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X><quote/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Older leaders seem to be more satisfied with many of the working conditions and surroundings than young leaders. <#/>They also seem to be more committed to their daily activities in th
e organization and loyal to the organization than the younger ones <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 [Schermerhorn, Hunt, and Osborn, 1985]}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X>. <#/>With this satisfaction, and commitment and loyalty to the organization, they are likely to devote extra energy and time on the organizati
on's activities. <#/>Devotion of extra energy and time beyond the normal requirements of the organization is likely to be seen as sacrifice by the subordinates. <#/>Devotion to work is a good indicator of sacrifice. <#/>Therefore, it is hypothesized that 
the older an individual gets, the more charismatic he becomes.
\par <h> <#/>3.1.2 Education </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Education, usually, is a tool for an individual which helps him to critically analyse his surroundings. <#/>Education normally changes an individual's priority rating of his needs <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 [Handy, 1985]}{
\fs24\lang2057 </X>. <#/>More educated leaders will tend to have so many demands at the expense of the subordinates, that is to say, the more educated leaders will tend to be selfish. <#/>This is because of the investment they think t
hey have made in education in terms of funds and time spent. <#/>Because of their good education they would like to be treated as a special elite group in the organization.
\par <#/>The process of treating educated leaders as a special elite goes with a lot of 
fringe benefits so as to maintain and retain their status even at the expense of the interests of their subordinates. <#/>This makes them feared or distrusted by their subordinates. <#/>Therefore <-/personal-interaction> with subordinates becomes minimal,
 which leads to the leader being isolated.
\par <#/>On the other hand, less educated leaders are likely to have a substantial <-/personal-interaction> with subordinates because they don't isolate themselves as a special elite group and in most cases, they come f
rom the "common roots" and therefore they are likely to have common problems with their subordinates. <#/>They are likely to have closer communication with their subordinates because of the good personal-interaction. <#/>Because of all these, less educate
d
 leaders are likely to spend more time and extra energy in solving their subordinates' problems. <#/>This will be perceived as sacrifice by their subordinates. <#/>Hence it is hypothesized here that the less educated leaders are, the more charismatic they
 would be perceived.
\par <h> <#/>3.1.3 Family Background </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 The family has the most significant impact on the development of a person. <#/>Parents play a unique role in the identification process which is responsible for an individual's early development <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
[Luthans, 1981]}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X>. <#/>The high needs for achievement in an individual would be exhibited more in children from poor families than those from rich families. <#/>This is because they would like to make their lives as good as those of children from well-off families.

\par <#/>There is research evidence which indicates that <-/first borns> are likely to be more serious in their jobs, and less carefree in their jobs <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 [Luthans, 1981]}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X>. <#/>Therefore, <-/first borns> are more likely to be men of principle
s, <-/hard working> and are more likely to have high needs for achievements in their jobs. <#/>The high needs for achievements will lead to patience, tolerance and job commitment, so that they perform their jobs to high levels of excellence and efficiency
.
\par <#/>In big families the socialization process starts at infancy. <#/>Socialization starts with mother, father, sisters, brothers and other close relatives <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 [Luthans, 1981]}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X>. <#/>This helps the child to have close interaction with others from early s
tage. <#/>Therefore, it is hypothesized that an individual from a poor and big family, of senior birth order in his family, and/or from a religious family is likely to be perceived as being charismatic in leadership. <#/>This is because he has the culture
 of sharing the little the family has, and is used to communal society. <#/>He will try not to be selfish so as to adhere to the religious teachings <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 [Hellriegel, Slocum and Woodman, 1986; Nyerere, 1978]</X>}{\fs24\lang2057 .
\par <h> <#/>3.1.4 Tenure </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Tenure of office is the period in which an individual occupies a certain position in the organization.
\par <#/>Tenure of office accumulates experience. <#/>With experience a person is able to generalize from particular problems and he is likely to learn how to interact with others for better productivity <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 [Handy, 1985]</X>}{
\fs24\lang2057 .
\par <#/>If an individual has been working under or with charismatic leaders in the organization he is likely to assume charismatic characteristics because to some extent, organizations/leaders "brainwash" 
their people. <#/>This is done by indoctrinating in new relationships. <#/>The new relationships help to change attitudes of individuals so that they can fit into the organization's norms and culture <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 [Allen, 1958]}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X>.
\par <#/>Therefore, it is hypothesized that, the longer the person stays in an organization the more likely he will assume/acquire charismatic leadership characteristics.
\par <h> <#/>3.1.5 Affiliation </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Affiliation plays a very complex but vital role in human patterns of <-/behavior>. <#/>Affiliation establishes and maintains }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <+_article>}{\fs24\lang2057 
 friendly, warm, and close relationship between the leader and subordinates <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 [Schermerhorn, Hunt, and Osborn, 1985]}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>. <#/>Individuals with a high need of affiliation usually get pleasure from being lik
ed and tend to avoid any pain of being rejected by their group. <#/>Therefore, they would normally be concerned with the <-/maintainance> of warm and friendly relationships. <#/>They are ready to console others in trouble and try to enjoy friendly interac
tion with others <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 [Koontz, and Weihrich, 1988]}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X>. <#/>Affiliation often leads to <-/enthuastic> and unquestioning trust, compliance, and loyalty. <#/>Subordinates would like to identify with the leader. <#/>They would like to identify with a successful and friendly leader <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
[Luthans, 1985 and Schermerhorn et al., 1985]}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>. <#/>A charismatic leader is therefore likely to be a person who maintains friendly and warm relations with his group of subordinates. <#/>The amount/level of affiliation of the lea
der with his subordinates can be a good indicator of the extent to which the leader is charismatic.
\par <h> <#/>3.1.6 Achievement </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Achievement is defined as the extent to which one accomplishes a target set by someone else, e.g., a supervisor. <#/>The specific characteristics of a high achiever are as follows }{\v\fs24\lang2057 [Luthans, 1981]}{\fs24\lang2057 
: A person who takes risks in his activities; a person who provides an immediate and precise feedback to his subordinates; a person who accomplishes his assigned activities in time;
 a person who would be totally preoccupied with the task until it is efficiently and successfully completed. <#/>Hall and his colleagues}{\v\fs24\lang2057  [Luthans, 1981]}{\fs24\lang2057 
 reported in their research that achievement oriented managers tend to be very open in their interaction
s and communications with others (both superiors and subordinates) and they tend to be concerned for both subordinates and production because this enables them (leaders) to know the subordinates problems and that of the organizations easily.
\par <#/>Achievement\_
oriented leaders take risks in their duties so as to attain the set standards and levels of performance; they provide immediate and precise feedback to their groups of subordinates so that the necessary corrections of errors can be done immediately for t
he betterment of the subordinates and the organization. <#/>Achievement oriented leaders, normally would like to see that jobs assigned to them are accomplished in the set time, that is to say, they are totally committed to the assignments and tirelessly 
work on the job until successfully completed to the required or beyond the required set level. <#/>The above characteristics are likely to be perceived as charismatic elements for the leader leading to be perceived as charismatic in leadership.
\par <#/>Leaders with a high need for achievement like to work long hours, tend to be restless for unaccomplished assignments, and do not worry for a failure if it does occur during the process of executing their duties <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
[McClelland, cited in Koontz, and Weihrich, 1988]}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>.
\par <#/>Thinking of a charismatic leader like Dr. Nyerere, of what he has done for Tanzania would serve as a good example of the argument that achievement oriented leaders are likely to be perceived as charismatic. <#/>Dr. Nyerere has contributed a lot t
o the <-/well being> of Tanzania, Africa, the third world, and indeed the whole world. <#/>In their <-/congulatory> message to Mwalimu Nyerere for being awarded the International Simon Bolivar Prize, 1992, the Institution of Engineers Tanzania said: <quot
e_>
\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
<#/>"Since the purpose of the award which is to reward an activity of outstanding merit which has contributed to the freedom, independence, and dignity of the peoples and to the strengthening of solidarity among nations, fostered their development o
r facilitated the establishment of a new economic social and cultural order, the award befits Mwalimu Nyerere's distinguished career in Tanzania, Africa, the third would and indeed the whole world" [Daily News, October, 1992] .}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X><quote/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \lang2057 <#/>Therefore, such achievements are more likely to be attributed to charismatic leadership.
\par \pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <h> <#/>3.2 Task-Related Behaviour Patterns </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 The model further suggests that certain job/task-related patterns of behaviour of the leader will be strongly related to charismatic leadership. <#/>In particular, based on the scant recent literature <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
(e.g., Conger and Kanungo, 1990)}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>, charismatic leadership would be related to: perceived capability in handling challenging job situations, required high degree of social in
teractions, amount of job-related feedback, the task variety in leaders job }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>grammar}{\fs24\lang2057 , the autonomy with which the leader has to do things, and level of the leader's job in the organization.
\par <h> <#/>3.2.1 Job Challenge </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Challenging job situation
s are those which are difficult, tricky and need devotion of extra energy, skills and time in tackling them. <#/>During handling these situations various skills, knowledge tactics and patience are needed. <#/>An individual who is capable in solving hard, 
c
hallenging job situations, on behalf of the organization, to an acceptable/required level of workmanship will be perceived as a charismatic leader by the subordinates. <#/>He is likely to be perceived as charismatic in leadership because, in the process o
f
 solving hard, challenging job situations, he is likely to spend extra efforts, time, skills, patience and wisdom. <#/>That is to say, he must be dedicated and committed. <#/>These are indicators or characteristics for sacrifice. <#/>In Tanzania, we have 
the case of Mr.Augustine L. Mrema who is considered very capable of handling challenging job situations.
\par <h> <#/>3.2.2. Social Interactions </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Social interactions start at infancy <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 [Luthans, 1981]}{\fs24\lang2057 </X> and socialization is defined as the process in which the organization tries to influence the person to acquire its norms , and values }
{\v\fs24\lang2057 [Handy, 1985]}{\fs24\lang2057 . <#/>If the leader has a high degree of social interaction with subordinates, the subordinates and the leader will feel as if they are peers even if they 
have different <-_status><+_statuses>. <#/>He (leader) will easily understand each individual and subordinates will feel less restricted to see their leader and discuss problems affecting the running of the organizational setting, hence improving the prod
uction or service of the organization.</I>
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Majige, J.B., m, Sukuma 1993, M.Sc. (Management.) Chapter 3, 35-48</&>
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx59\tx1816\tqr\tx2111\adjustright {\b\fs24\lang2057 W2A007T}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 <X_>}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 Chapter One}{\b\fs24\lang2057 </X>
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx135\adjustright {\b\fs24\lang2057 <I> <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 INTRODUCTION </h>
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx2843\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>It might be a matter of some urgency that anthropologists use their inti
mate knowledge of local [witchcraft] to analyze its implications with respect to state formation and the new contradictions between peasants and state elites (Geschiere, 1988:40)}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx2187\adjustright {\b\fs24\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 The Problem and Central Argument.</h>
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx6833\adjustright {<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 This is a dissertation about the origins, historical developments and current status of belief and practices of witchcraft and related phenomenon in Tanzania.
\par <#/>The main argument is that witchcraft is a socially constructed reality which baffles many of the ruling elites in A
frica. <#/>Witchcraft presents paradoxes and dilemmas. <#/>By paradox here I mean the contradictions arising from the reality of witchcraft and its consequences. <#/>For example a country is faced with the widespread killing of suspected witches when it i
s
 an avowed adherent to the principles of the "Rule of Law". <#/>The dilemmas arise from the limited and sometimes difficult choices available in dealing with the phenomenon. <#/>A central dilemma is that, by denying witchcraft, ruling elites lose their ab
i
lity to control witchcraft or indeed help citizens in effectively dealing with the problem. <#/>Yet by confronting it directly they admit that it exists thereby reinforcing popular beliefs about it, and challenge their (elites') definition of being modern
. <#/>This plays itself out in policy deliberations and decisions. <#/>For example, deporting alleged witches and crusading against witchcraft can each be informed by recognition of the same dilemma. <#/>Does such an exercise prove the non\-
existence of witchcraft, or does it confirm its prevalence and hence seek ways to counter it on its own terms? <#/>These paradoxes and dilemmas confront the ruling elites as they are engaged in processes of nation and state building.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx6856\adjustright \lang2057 <#/>\tab The paradox is that witchcraft blo
cks development, while development activities provide some of the conditions which facilitate witchcraft. <#/>The ensuing dilemma is that the development activities necessary to remove some causes of witchcraft, such as poverty and illness, generate other
 
causes as well, such as the erosion of traditional local authority and envy of those who benefit more through development measures. <#/>The promotion of development efforts reduces some causes but also generates other causes of witchcraft. <#/>Thus, some 
women in central\_
eastern Tanzania failed to reap the benefits of a children's day care <AmE/>center <-AmE/>program because they feared certain members of their group were "bewitching" some of the children. <#/>On the other hand, cases abound [in Africa] of 
how the conspicuous success of farmers, businessmen or politicians have been ascribed to the diabolic machinations of witchcraft. <#/>In general witchcraft challenges the judicial and cultural practices of the ruling elites, and with this, the ability of 
state authority. <#/>This dissertation explicates the paradoxes and demonstrates the dilemmas surrounding witchcraft.
\par \pard\plain \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx6598\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>\tab The dissertation expounds on the paradoxes and describes the dilemmas, arguing that witchcraft confounds ruling elites and not only fr
ustrates their ability to govern but also challenges their identification with modernization. <#/>Indeed the more I think about it, the more I recognize that this is in part a problem of identity - the cultural definition of being modern, secularism, soci
alism, authenticity etc.
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx6775\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>\tab 
There are three convincing reasons for considering witchcraft as a factor in relations between many of the African states and their populations. <#/>First, as Geschiere has remarked, since independence, witchcraft has acquired 
an important public position in a considerable number of post\_colonial African states. <#/>He writes, <quote_>
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx2971\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 there is good reason to suppose that in many African situations sorcery and witchcraft play a central role in the tensions between state and societies. }{
\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 Not only because the idiom...is ambiguously closely connected to conceptions of power and subordination but also because the idiom seems to elude the heavy authority of the state (Geschiere, 1988: 31)}{\fs24\lang2057 
 </X><quote/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx6721\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Witchcraft beliefs and practices are pervasive and resilient elements with important implications for ruling elites as they struggle to create authentic nation\_
state identities.
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx6659\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>\tab Secondly, because of the elusive nature and embeddedness of such beliefs and practices, the chal
lenges posed to the new nations are enormous. <#/>The less structured these popular modes are, the more they can remain invisible. <#/>Therefore, it is more difficult for the state machinery to deal with these practices. <#/>Witchcraft appears to be a con
c
ealed and deliberately diffuse mode of action. <#/>As such, it raises a number of analytical problems. <#/>On the one hand, witchcraft has traditionally been viewed with pejorative connotations. <#/>It's status as an ostensibly "backward" social custom en
courages most African leaders to pass over its existence without pronouncement <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Geschiere, 1988: ibid)}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X>. <#/>For that matter, no concrete development projects have been undertaken expressly to eradicate it. <#/>Development projects are said to be aff
ected in varying degrees by the alleged craft of witches. <#/>Witchcraft seems to be intricately linked with developmental and social change in Africa because it is essentially part of evolving but contradictory forms of progress, the dialectics of which 
are yet to be interpreted by conventional western anthropological analysis <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Lucas, 1976:511\_512; Turner, 1964:314)}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X>. <#/>The new states find themselves caught between avowed modernization goals and cultural revival inclinations found in some sectors 
of society. <#/>Is witchcraft then, a superstitious form of ignorance or does cultural pride turn some people to witchcraft? <#/>The place of witchcraft and attempts at its control pose some dilemmas. <#/>For example, some leaders hesitate to explicitly c
o
ndemn or countenance such beliefs and practices, as they are themselves at times involved in such practices. <#/>As a result, there is no consistency in dealing with the problem as official policy is generally restrained and, at the same time, there seems
 to be a tacit acceptance of these presumably traditional customs.
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx6736\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>\tab 
Thirdly, contradictions arising from the canons of the received law on witchcraft continue to arise in many countries whereas the tenacity of beliefs become greater as economic and soci
al crises offer fertile grounds for such beliefs and practices. <#/>Part of the problem appears to rest upon a persistent lack of understanding or appreciation of the intensity and genuineness of beliefs in witchcraft which are ingrained in pre-scientific
 societies. <#/>On the other hand, there are those who deliberately take advantage of witchcraft fears for economic and political advantage.
\par }\pard \qj\ri51\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx4270\tqr\tx6783\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Christian missionaries have recognized the seriousness of witchcraft/sorcery and related phenomena as they impin
ge on efforts to evangelize the masses and pose legitimate concerns to potential converts. <#/>Since the 1970s missionaries have taken action, in the form of meetings and publications. <#/>They have focused their attention on these issues and the related 
implications for their mission. <#/>For example, a conference on }{\fs24\ul\lang2057 Faith and Healing}{\fs24\lang2057 , was held in Yaounde, Cameroon on September 10\_
13, 1972 and another Episcopal conference on Africa and Madagascar (SECAM) was convened in Rome in 1975. <#/>The gathering drew the attention of all bishops to the need for research and surveys on witchcraft matters. <#/>A publication titled }{
\fs24\ul\lang2057 "Who is Who in African Witchcraft" (Pro Mundi, Africa Dossier 12, 1980}{\fs24\lang2057 ) resulted from that meeting. <#/>Furthermore, a colloquium was organiz
ed by the World Council of Churches, in Cameroon in 1978. <#/>This assembly, "...recommended the churches to study with objectivity and seriousness the beliefs and practices of witchcraft" ( p.32).
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx6856\adjustright \lang2057 <#/>\tab I will pursue my argument as follows: First I survey 
witchcraft events across a range of African countries. <#/>Then I describe my own encounters with witchcraft beliefs and practices in Tanzania, and indicate how this affected me in my role as a leader in my village and as University lecturer. <#/>I contin
u
e by focusing on witchcraft as a socially constructed system of meaning and action in Tanzania, the locus of my research. <#/>In chapter three, I describe the political, economic, and social conditions in Tanzania which both nourish and contradict witchcr
a
ft, hence posing paradox. <#/>In chapter four, I make a distinction between witchcraft, sorcery, and magic and establish witchcraft in historical perspective. <#/>I look at the evolution of witchcraft in pre-colonial African societies and the role it play
e
d in pre-colonial settings. <#/>I identify and challenge myths about the essence of witchcraft in these societies. <#/>I continue with a chapter on the British colonial efforts to suppress witchcraft, show how this crusade astounded the officials in much 
the same type of dilemma which confronts post\_
colonial elites today. <#/>I follow this with three chapters describing and explaining traditional means of dealing with witchcraft. <#/>These means included the use of traditional witch eradicators and the mobi
lization of people in movements to cleanse communities of witchcraft. <#/>I argue that these traditional means continued in spite of colonial efforts to outlaw them, and show how officials became ambivalent in their interpretation of such tradition. <#/>T
h
ese accounts give background to my examination in chapter nine of the presence, relevance and significance of witchcraft in today's Tanzania. <#/>Chapter ten deals with the implications and consequences of the practices of witchcraft in the country. <#/>T
he background to the Sukumaland witch\_killings is provided in chapter eleven, and chapter twelve is a detailed account of the phenomenon of witch\_homicides among the Sukuma people. <#/>My conclusions are contained in chapter thirteen.
\par \pard\plain \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx50\tqr\tx8600\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\b\fs24\ul\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\ul\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\ul\lang2057 Objectives </h>}{\fs24\ul\lang2057 
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Through this examination of witchcraft, I pursue the following objectives:
\par <#/>i) examine how witchcraft confronts Tanzanian and other African elites and state authorities with dilemma and paradox.
\par <#/>ii) to probe and evaluate the methods employed by the British colonial administration in repressing witchcraft during the colonial period.
\par <#/>iii) to examine the administrative and legal efforts of the independent government of Tanzania in containing witchcraft and the intricate obstacles inhibiting these efforts.
\par <#/>iv) to assess the prevailing situation with regard to witchcraft in Tanzania.
\par <#/>v) to explain the phenomenon of witch\_killing in Sukumaland since the early 1970s.
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx50\tqr\tx1966\adjustright {\b\fs24\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 Critical Questions </h>
\par }\pard \qj\ri51\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx50\tx464\tqr\tx8598\adjustright {<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 I will accomplish the above objectives by asking and seeking answers to the following questions:
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx50\tx464\tqr\tx8598\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>\_What was the perceived role of witchcraft in pre\_colonial Tanzanian societies?
\par <#/>\_how and with what results did colonial authorities handle witchcraft?
\par <#/>\_how did the post\_colonial government carry out or diverge from colonial methods of combating witchcraft, and what were the ramifications thereof?
\par <#/>\_what is the current status of witchcraft in Tanzania? <#/>To what extent is witchcraft "institutionalized" as some commentators claim? <#/>; How is it viewed by ordinary people and how do the elites perceive it?
\par <#/>\_is there a connection between witchcraft and development efforts in the country?
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx50\tqr\tx1497\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>\_why and what are the nature, characteristics and implications of the Sukumaland witch\_killings?
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx50\tqr\tx1356\adjustright {\b\fs24\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 Significance </h>}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }\pard \qj\ri51\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx50\tx707\tqr\tx8691\adjustright {<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 
The above questions reflect the fact that witchcraft is a highly contentious issue in Tanzania and elsewhere in Africa. <#/>Witchcraft is a culturally constructed reality. <#/>It is a system of cultural meaning and soc
ial action, woven into the fabric of life. <#/>Following D'Andrade (1984:96), I understand cultural meaning systems to perform four main functions:
\par (i) they represent the world, (ii) create cultural entities, }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>orth}{\b\fs24\lang2057  }{\fs24\lang2057 (ii) direct people to do certain thing
s and (iv) evokes certain feelings. <#/>The cultural meaning system of witchcraft in Africa does just that. <#/>In spite of efforts to deny or eliminate it, it exists, and people act accordingly. <#/>This culturally constructed reality affects the lives o
f Tanzanians and other Africans and calls for explanation and understanding. <#/>Resorting to witchcraft means that there is a serious lack of legitimate methods of social control and moral bonds.
\par }\pard \qj\ri50\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx6714\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>\tab Tanzanians refer to witchcraft as <ea/>}{\fs24\ul\lang2057 uchawi}{\fs24\lang2057  (or <ea/>}{\fs24\ul\lang2057 ulozi}{\fs24\lang2057 
 in other vernaculars). <#/>Today, <ea/>}{\fs24\ul\lang2057 uchawi}{\fs24\lang2057 
 (witchcraft) remains a prominent feature of society. <#/>It is debated in the mass media, politicians and administrators condemn it, it manifests in courts of law and forms a regular segment of public dis
course in Tanzania. <#/>In some instances witchcraft may be taken lightly, but in most cases, witchcraft accusation is feared as its consequences are grim. <#/>Thus, in the case of Sukuma people, imputation of witchcraft could lead to death by machete (<e
a/>}{\fs24\ul\lang2057 panga}{\fs24\lang2057 
), whereas in the coastal area of Rufiji, ritual murders are traditional prerequisites for the elevation of candidates in the hierarchy of secret witchcraft societies. <#/>In Tanzanian soccer, lucrative sums of money find their way into the coffers 
of presumed witch-experts who use divination, ritual acts and powerful medicines to hex rival teams in order to win. <#/>Many parents take measures in protecting their children by having them wear "loads" of talismans and fetishes to ward off witchcraft. 
<#/>Even members of the educated elite are not inimical to occult practices as I will later demonstrate.
\par }\pard \qj\ri51\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx6541\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>\tab There are both similarities and contrasts in witchcraft as Tanzania society is diverse. <#/>Not all are equally convincing. <#/>Yet, such claims ca
nnot be dismissed simply because they are not scientifically verifiable. <#/>The treatment of the subject of witchcraft in Tanzania has been an eclectic one, comprised of occasional references and piecemeal studies. <#/>My aim in this work is to present a
 more comprehensive account of the phenomenon based on a systematic historico\_cultural analysis.
\par }\pard \qj\ri51\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx3500\adjustright {\fs24\ul\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\fs24\ul\lang2057 Methodology and Study at the University of Minnesota </h>}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }\pard \qj\ri51\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tqr\tx6608\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 \tab }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 In the Fall of 1986 I embarked on a course of study at the University of Minnesota, to e
quip myself with the necessary tools of tackling such baffling social issues as witchcraft. <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>
Since that time I have been developing my views on the subject as an historical fact and its place in contemporary Tanzania society. <#/>I was able to put forward my ideas and arguments on the issue in my preliminary oral examination}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057  
}{\v\fs24\lang2057 in 1989. <#/>This was followed by library and archival research as well as field work in Tanzania. }{\fs24\lang2057 </X></I>
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>Mesaki, S. m, 40+, Sukuma, Ph.D. thesis 1993, Chapter One, 1-9
\par }{\b\fs24 W2A008T
\par <I> <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24 INTRODUCTION <h>
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 
Literary criticism has emerged 'to be an essential element in the understanding of a work of art. <#/>Consequently a critic has enjoyed a status in the society which he previously did not have. <#/>The major task of 
a critic is to analyse and interpret works of art. <#/>One approach through which this task is being accomplished is stylistics.
\par <#/>Stylistics is used here to mean the study of literary discourse from a linguistic orientation. <#/>It should not be taken a
s an autonomous domain, but an essential means of linking literary criticism on one hand and linguistics on the other. <#/>Stylistics therefore \ldblquote involves both literary criticism and linguistics. <#/>\rdblquote 
 In poetry such an assertion is clear if we consider poetry as both language and art.
\par <#/>Most Kiswahili poetry analysts and critics have hitherto been focusing on what is communicated. <#/>The interpretation and artistic effect is thus focused on the content and they pay little attention, or no attention at al
l on how the message is communicated. <#/>Such critics are concerned with such questions like: what has a work of art to offer to society?
\par <#/>What is its contribution towards the development of man? <#/>etc. <#/>Whereas such questions are very valid, they are however, }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>punct}{\fs24\lang2057  not exhaustive.
\par <#/>Both }{\b\fs24\lang2057 what}{\fs24\lang2057  and }{\b\fs24\lang2057 how}{\fs24\lang2057 
 (of poetry) are vital, the latter being basic. <#/>In other words, to communicate something to the society is one thing and to understand how it is communicated is another. <#/>Although these tw
o compliment each other, the latter determined the impact of the former on the society.
\par <#/>In this research we are rather interested in looking into how the message is conveyed in Kiswahili poetry, and indeed what is the relationship between form and cont
ent; and look into what is the message of a poem in order to make the research worthwhile.
\par <#/>To understand better how message in poetry can be conveyed one has to study and analyse features which constitute the linguistic code in poetic language. <#/>The
se features (henceforth called artistic devices) will be considered as an organic part of form of any Kiswahili poetry.
\par <#/>Artistic devices in poetry are many. <#/>We have only selected a few of them for the purpose of this study. <#/>These shall fall under two categories: the category of sound which include }{\b\fs24\lang2057 assonance}{\fs24\lang2057  and }{
\b\fs24\lang2057 consonance}{\fs24\lang2057  and the category of intonation, which includes }{\b\fs24\lang2057 pitch, stress}{\fs24\lang2057  and }{\b\fs24\lang2057 rhythm. <#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 
Each of these devices is described under the glossary section. <#/>All these artistic devices fall 
under one broad area of study called phonology. <#/>Thus, this study focusses on the phonological aspects of foregrounding as they appear in Kiswahili poetry. <#/>We shall occasionally be using semantic aspects to clarify a particular argument when discus
sing the utility of a particular poem in society. <#/>Semantic aspects will also be used in <-/conjuction> with phonological ones in interpreting a literary work and when we will be discussing the relationship between form and meaning in poetry.
\par <#/>This study takes a random selection of Kiswahili poems. <#/>The selection includes poems which strictly follow such aspects like rhyme, metre, alliteration etc. and other which do not follow such strictness.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \b\i\f1\lang1031 {\i0\f0\lang2057 <h> }{\i0\lang2057 <#/>}{\i0\f0\lang2057 1.0\tab THE RESEARCH PROBLEM </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s3\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \b\lang1031 {\lang2057 <h> <#/>1.1\tab Background to the problem </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 
Kiswahili poetry teaching and learning in secondary schools in Tanzania still poses a problem. <#/>Students and teachers alike, find Kiswahili literature difficult because of one section poetry. <#/>consequently interest tow
ards Kiswahili literature and linguistics at large keeps on dropping.
\par <#/>Way back in the 1970\rquote s, there were initiatives to narrow down the problem. <#/>Abdu Bashir thought that an ideal attempt to solve the problem should start with junior secondary class
es. <#/>He proposed a guideline on how to teach Kiswahili poetry. <#/>Two of his <-/suggesstions> are worth mentioning. <#/>One, that students should first be trained to receive poems through hearing. <#/>Two, that teachers should select short memorable p
oems.
\par <#/>Following Bashir\rquote 
s suggestions however, today one finds theoretical and practical problems. <#/>For instance, what criteria should be used to determine a "memorable" poem? <#/>How short should a poem be? <#/>Is memorising a poem of that much impor
tance? <#/>Can this way prepare a pupil to be inquisitive to the extent of unfolding the meaning embedded in a poem? <#/>Such problems remain unanswered. <#/>Another problem is that Bashir\rquote 
s proposed guideline is based on the assumption that the problem in Kiswahili poetry teaching and learning is <-/one sided> the student side. <#/>It is argued that students find it difficult to learn Kiswahili poetry, and not their teachers.
\par <#/>We do not intend to answer all questions raised out of Bashir\rquote s suggestions. <#/>Instead we shall attempt to find out where the problem lies and try to look for a solution.
\par <#/>Unlike Bashir, Mwangomango observed that the problem in Kiswahili poetry teaching is teacher - centred. <#/>Lack of self-confidence among Kiswahili literatu
re teachers was found to affect the teaching of Kiswahili poetry. <#/>The absence of a clear and detailed guideline is said to be the reason for this lack of self-confidence. <#/>Proposing what he calls a detailed Kiswahili poetry guideline, Mwangomango s
tarts by saying that poetry is a talent, and poets are talented people. <#/>This brings in, }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>punct}{\fs24\lang2057 
 the sense of 'god' given inspiration, By so claiming Mwangomango puts a cloud of despair and fear over Kiswahili poetry. <#/>That is, if you fail to understand a poem, there is no any other way you can do, because `god\rquote 
 has not given you that inspiration; that those who are not talented can never write a poem and their effort to understand what <-_other><+_others> have written will always be difficult.
\par <#/>Another problem with Mwangomango\rquote s guideline is that it seems the problem in Kiswahili poetry teaching and learning is caused by teachers\rquote 
 failure to teach. <#/>Equally <-/one sided> Mwangomango is of the opinion that, the problem lies mainly on teachers. <#/>Mwangomango\rquote 
s attempt to solve the problem got stuck simply because of his unrealistic analytical framework. <#/>Mwangomango is supported by Mayoka who claims that poetry is not only a talent, but also, fear is its basic characteristic.
\par <#/>On the other hand, Senkoro considers the problem in a wider perspective. <#/>He writes: <quote_>
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Ushairi umeonekana kwa baadhi kubwa ya walimu na wanafunzi kuwa ni somo gumu sana na h ata kuogopwa.}{\fs24\lang2057 </X> <quote/>}{
\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Senkoro defines the problem as caused by both teachers\rquote  and students\rquote 
 failure to understand Kiswahili poetry. <#/>However, he does not say why the two groups find poetry difficult. <#/>Neither does he show why both teachers and students are afraid of poetry. <#/>Nevertheless, he goes on giving a guid
eline on how to analyse Kiswahili poetry based on the semantic approach.
\par <#/>To those who follow a semantic approach, what matters and determines their interpretation of a poem is its content and not its form. <#/>Following this approach, the analysis focu
sses not only on lexical meaning, but also on their contextual meaning. <#/>It is out of such an analysis, that a particular theme of a specific poem is derived. <#/>One analyst who follows such an approach is Sengo. <#/>Analysing one of Shaaban Robert
\rquote s poems in }{\b\fs24\lang2057 Pamba la Lugha}{\fs24\lang2057 , Sengo takes only two words \ldblquote }{\i\fs24\lang2057 Raha}{\fs24\lang2057 \rdblquote  and \ldblquote }{\i\fs24\lang2057 Akili}{\fs24\lang2057 \rdblquote 
 as the core of the theme of the poem. <#/>The analysis which focuses on the content of a poem can be said to use a semantic deviation. <#/>By this we mean the process of transference of meaning. <#/>This is also called }{\i\fs24\lang2057 metaphor}{
\fs24\lang2057 . <#/>Senkoro\rquote s interpretation and analysis of Kiswahili poems for instance focusses on metaphor. <#/>He comments: <quote_>
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Matumizi ya taswira mara nyingi huambatana na yale ya ishara ambazo nazo aghalabu h
ufichwa ndani ya tamathali za usemi ... na katika shairi la M.M. Mulokozi na K.K. Kahigi la
\par \ldblquote Barua kwa... (Malenga wa Bara uk 39), nguvu za mapenzi zimedhihirishwa kwa matumizi ya taswira za aina mbalimbali za vifaa vya kukatia na kuumiza. }{\fs24\lang2057 </X><quote/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>The interpretation of metaphors alone leaves much to be desired. <#/>How can one justify that a metaphor }{\b\fs24\lang2057 X}{\fs24\lang2057  carries meaning }{
\b\fs24\lang2057 Y}{\fs24\lang2057  and not meaning }{\b\fs24\lang2057 Z}{\fs24\lang2057 ? <#/>If we analyse figures of speech in a poem in purely semantic approach, how can we justify that our analysis
 is more objective than the <-_other><+_others> which follow say lexical and syntactical approaches? <#/>Such questions are left unanswered. <#/>In chapter four we shall show the rationale of such questions, and attempt to propose an additional approach.

\par <#/>Nowottny says that usually 'metaphor' is used to mean something like "speaking of }{\b\fs24\lang2057 X}{\fs24\lang2057  as though it were }{\b\fs24\lang2057 Y. <#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 
Leach extends this idea and gives a general formula which he says fits all rules of transference: <quote_>
\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>The figurative sense }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 F}{\v\fs24\lang2057  may replace the literal sense }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 L}{\v\fs24\lang2057  if }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 F}{\v\fs24\lang2057  is related to }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 L}{
\v\fs24\lang2057  in such-and such a way.}{\fs24\lang2057  </X><quote/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Being a structuralist, Leech focuses on relationship as the basis of meaning. <#/>Hence the relationship between }{\b\fs24\lang2057 F}{\fs24\lang2057  and }{\b\fs24\lang2057 L. <#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Following Leech\rquote 
s formula above we ask whether this structuralist approach is the only \ldblquote such and such a way\rdblquote  to justify the relationship between }{\b\fs24\lang2057 F}{\fs24\lang2057  and }{\b\fs24\lang2057 L. <#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 
This structuralist approach is based on semantics and as we shall see later (chapter 4) there are other approaches which can be used to analyse the relationship between two items say for example }{\b\fs24\lang2057 F}{\fs24\lang2057  and }{
\b\fs24\lang2057 L. <#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Turuka argues from the author\rquote s (Poet\rquote s) viewpoint that: <quote_>
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Kwanza mashairi yanaweza yakatumiwa kwa kueleza mawazo ya mshairi kwa ujumla kuhusu mambo ya duniani, k.m. mawazo 
yake kuhusu ulimwengu, uchoyo mahaba, fedha, elimu, Kiswahili n.k. }{\fs24\lang2057 </X><quote/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 
<#/>Turuka takes us to the argument concerning the mind of a poet; he observes that there is a relationship between what the poet thinks and what he writes in a poem. <#/>This 
relationship so states Turuka, is seen from the choice of the words a poet makes in his poem. <#/>This is again, a semantically based opinion. <#/>Is there any possibility of finding the role of say, sound and its segments, marks etc. in the creation of m
eaning? <#/>Although chapter four will attempt to answer such questions, it suffices to say here that the poet\rquote 
s mind can <-/influecne> his intention which is then revealed through sound and marks. <#/>Concerning this Searle discusses the `meaning of intention\rquote . <#/>He says: <quote_>
\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>The mind imposes intentionality on the production of sounds, marks etc. by imposing the conditions of satisfaction of the mental state on the production of the physical phenomena. }{\fs24\lang2057 </X><quote/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 

\par }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>The point that Searle is making is that, meaning being an affair of consciousness should only be justifiable from its author. <#/>He is against the theory of semantic autonomy which is followed by scholars like Eliot, Pound etc.

\par <#/>This study shall not deal with the philosophic
al arguments of meaning neither will it deal with the philosophy of language as such. <#/>It shall however use some of the arguments in these domains in an attempt to challenge the semantic approach in analysing poetry and thereby push forward the idea th
at phonology through a stylistic approach can have a role to play in the interpretation of a Kiswahili poem.
\par <#/>Coming back to the content based analysis, (or semantic deviation approach) we find that analysts such as Msokile, Sengo, Tandika, King\rquote ei, Khat
ib, Senkoro, Mvungi and the like give us only the end results. <#/>They do not give us the procedure they had followed to those end results. <#/>We ask for instance how did Msokile get the themes of E. Kezilahabi\rquote s }{\b\fs24\lang2057 Karibu Ndani}{
\fs24\lang2057 ? <#/>How did Kezilahabi for example come to the conclusion that the poem he was analysing was just '<ea/>mchezo <ea/>wa <ea/>maneno' and has nothing to contribute to the life of man? <#/>.
\par Let us have one more example which is relevant to our study. <#/>Chacha\rquote s analytical book: }{\b\fs24\lang2057 Sauti ya Utetezi,}{\fs24\lang2057  is so far the only book that has <-/delt> extensively on Abdilatif Abdalla\rquote 
s poetry, focusing on both form and content. <#/>Using a Marxist theoretical framework, Chacha summarises themes of Abdalla\rquote s poetry as follows: <quote_>
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Maudh
ui mbalimbali tunayoyaona katika ushairi wa Abdilatif Abdalla yamekita katika ufundi wa ubeuzi na kinaya ya kukejeli. Kwa kutumia taswira, mafumbo, istiara na jazanda, mwandishi anafanikiwa kuibeua hali ya kiuchumi na kisiasa ya nchi ya Kenya na Afrika kw
a ujumla. }{\fs24\lang2057 </X><quote/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Like other analysts who follow semantics and contextual approaches, Chacha sees the meaning of Abdalla\rquote 
s poetry through image, allegory, figures of speech and metaphor. <#/>Unfortunately however, the analysis does not include Abdalla\rquote s free-verse poetry such as }{\b\fs24\lang2057 Kibarua. <#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 
We are thus back to our question: can this approach have the same results if used to analyse Kiswahili free-verse poetry?
\par <#/>Again Chacha rightly argues that in }{\b\fs24\lang2057 Sauti ya Dhiki}{\fs24\lang2057  the author fights for poor man\rquote s justice; also that the anthology shows agony. <#/>He hits the point of our interest when he comments: <quote_>
\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Pamoja na kheri hii, mtazamo wetu utazingatia lengo la kufafanua hoja na sababu zinazofanya kitabu hiki kuitwa Sauti ya Dhiki na wakati huohuo kuwa ni sauti ya shime. }{\fs24\lang2057 </X><quote/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Now the question is: Can we "perceive" this voice of agony through the metaphor, allegory and image or through the sounds which make up the poem? <#/>How can we experience the agony the author went through when reading }{
\b\fs24\lang2057 Sauti ya Dhiki}{\fs24\lang2057 ?
\par <#/>In chapter four, we shall attempt to answer these questions by using a phono-stylistical approach to the selected poems. <#/>Throughout this study, our main argument is that semantic and contextual approaches should go hand in 
hand with a phono-stylistical approach in order to have an ideal analytical framework of Kiswahili poetry.
\par <#/>We have seen on page 7 that by clinging to semantic approach alone, one is bound to have some problems with Kiswahili free-verse poetry. <#/>Ther
e are moreover two implicated lexical problems: First, by providing themes just from looking at the meaning of words at a surface level, an analyst claims to find out what a poem as a whole is about.</I>
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Mutembei, A.K: m. 30, Haya, M.A. Dissertation 1994, Chapter One, 1-13</&>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 
\par W2A009T
\par <I> <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 2.7 }{\b\fs24\ul\lang2057 ELEMENTS OF THE PROCESS OF}{\b\fs24\lang2057  }{\b\fs24\ul\lang2057 HANGING AND PROCESSING VIEWS AMONG MEMBERS OF A DECISION PROCESS <h> }{\b\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Exchanging and processing views raised by members is the main activity of a decision process of an interacting small decision group <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Kowitz et al (1980); Applbaum et al (1974))}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X>. <#/>It is also called discussion or verbal interaction among members.
\par <#/>The main roles of exchanging and processing views are: to analyse views, to evaluate , to compare is
sues emerging from the analysis, and to decide on the basis of the analysis and comparisons made. <#/>Analysis is achieved by altering and exploring the given views. <#/>Therefore, the success or failure of the decision process in dealing with the decisio
n task depends strongly on how the exchanging and processing views has been conducted. <#/>This is similar to what Phillips et al (1970) believe in.
\par <#/>Exchanging and processing views raised by members has several characteristics. <#/>According to Applbaum et al (1974) and Irle (1982), exchanging and processing views has the following characteristics:
\par <#/>(1)\tab  }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 It is dynamic in nature. <#/>That is, it changes as the decision process develops over time.
\par <#/>(2)\tab  It can be broken down into components which are interconnected <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Applbaum et al 1974)}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>. <#/>As a result of this, it develops through its components.
\par <#/>(3)\tab  It is complex in nature <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Applbaum et al 1974)}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>. <#/>This is influenced by (1), (2), variety and apparent disorder that defies neat analysis <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Eden et al 1989)</X>}{
\fs24\lang2057 , and the conditions that make the decision process of an interacting small decision group complex were discussed in section 2.1.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx289\tx578\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>(4)\tab Views that its members raise have the following characteristics:
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 Views tend to be brief, fragmented and impromptu in nature;
\par Views are developed from the preceding ones;
\par Some of the views are repeated frequently;
\par Some of the views disagree or oppose frequently.
\par <#/>These characteristics are reflected in the views of Applbaum et al (1974).
\par <#/>(5)\tab 
It generates information which consists of ideas which are accumulated bit by bit, episodically, as it develops. <#/>These ideas are sorted out through frequent digressions and repetition of views. <#/>This is developed from the ideas of <-/App
laum> et al (1974).
\par <#/>(6)\tab  At any time of its development, members may be classified into two categories, namely: a speaker, and listeners. <#/>A speaker is a member who gives a view at that time. <#/>Listeners are members who listen and watch the speake
r at the same time. <#/>There is usually one speaker and two or more listeners at a given time. <#/>But there can be two or more speakers in some stages of the development of the process of exchanging and processing views. <#/>Different members become spe
akers and listeners at different times of exchanging and processing views. <#/>But the frequencies in which members become listeners or speakers differ.
\par <#/>(7)\tab It uses a language which is understood and spoken by all its members. <#/>The language is used a
s a medium for expressing views, thinking about them, and developing new ones. <#/>Speakers think first and then raise their views. <#/>On the other hand, listeners watch the speakers, hear their views, and then think about them. <#/>But thinking about a 
given view generates more possible meanings, and a great number of links among the meanings <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Schroder et al 1967)}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X>. <#/>So different listeners may reveal different meanings from one view. <#/>These meanings are developed from the words or concepts th
at are used to express that view. <#/>Some of those meanings may be the same or similar to that the speaker intended to convey while others may be different and unique. <#/>As a result, different listeners may give different reactions or comments to the s
ame view.
\par <#/>(8)\tab It promotes the growth of social influences. <#/>This is because it affects the judgements, choices and views that its members raise <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Irle 1982)}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X>; it affects and it is affected by several social and psychological factors which emerge in it <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Marby et al 1980)}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>. <#/>The type and degree to which those members change their views depends on:
\par whether the views are directed at the goal of the decision process or not.
\par <#/>levels of persuasion and subjective novelty of the views;
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx289\tx578\tx867\tx1156\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 the degree to which the views are consistent with their cognitive styles. <#/>The conditions that may make members change their original views are:
\par Learning and understanding the views of other members, the ideas they convey, their relevancy and reasons for or against them. <#/>This helps members to clear doubts on views of others.
\par <#/>Comparing their views against those of other members in terms of relevancy and logical reasoning and being convinced that the views of other members are stronger than their views.
\par <#/>Discovering that their views are not consistent with their cognitive styles. <#/>People prefer views that are consistent with their beliefs, attitudes, values, and wishes <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Kowitz et al (1980); Janis (1972))}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>.

\par <#/>Discovering that their views are strongly questioned or get less support than those of other members and their efforts to convince them fail. <#/>These are influenced by the ideas of Teger and Pruitt (1967); and Irle (1982).
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>There are also many types of elements which emerge when th
e process of exchanging and processing of views takes place. <#/>The main ones are: activities of members in exchanging and processing views, participation of members; conflicts; interpersonal relations, cohesion or team spirit; movement and direction of 
the decision process; style of management the leader adopts; satisfaction of members with the decision process; decisions and rules used to make them; decision time. <#/>We consider these issues one by one in the subsections below.
\par <h> <#/>2.7.1 }{\fs24\ul\lang2057 ACTIVITIES OF MEMBERS IN THE PROCESS OF EXCHANGING}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\ul\lang2057 AND PROCESSING VIEWS </h>}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Exchanging and processing views has activities. <#/>This is drawn from findings of several types of studies carried out in psychology, sociology, communication. <#/>These studies are in
dicated in the references in the sections below. <#/>They use the procedures below to identify the activities of members:
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx289\tx578\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 (1)\tab Direct discovery of activities;
\par (2)\tab Discovery of main structures and their dominant routines;
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs24\lang2057 (3)\tab Discovering roles of members and their associated activities.
\par <#/>These are carried out as discussed below:
\par }{\fs24\ul\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\fs24\ul\lang2057 Direct discovery of activities of exchanging and processing views </h>}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Several studies discovered the activities of members by observing their processes of exchanging 
and processing views. <#/>Johnson (1955) shows that exchanging and processing views consists of: goal setting; considering proposals of the decision task; seeking for information; information giving; proposing alternatives or solutions; seeking for develo
p
ment or progress; giving development; opposing; supporting; seeking for summary; giving summary; and giving direction to issues that are not related to the decision task considered. <#/>Fisher (1970) shows that exchanging and processing views involves: re
s
olving ambiguities in alternative interpretations; resolving conflicts emerging from different interpretations; giving favourable comments; substantiating given comments; giving interpretations followed by other interpretations of comments and other infor
m
ation. <#/>Applbaum et al (1974) show that activities of exchanging and processing views may be: gestures; commands; comments or remarks; opinions; questions; answers; threatening verbal cues or signals; tension release (eg jokes, laughter, etc.); tension
 
<-/build up> (eg anger, abuses, etc.). <#/>Belbin (1981) shows that exchanging and processing views involves: asking; informing; proposing; opposing; delegating; and commenting. <#/>The activities which these studies show are similar. <#/>However, these s
tudies do not show how they discovered their activities. <#/>Friend et al (1987) show three types of queries which are raised when exchanging and processing views about a complex decision task, namely:
\par Seeking for more or additional information;
\par Seeking for clear objectives or goals;
\par Seeking for coordination.
\par }{\fs24\ul\lang2057 <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\fs24\ul\lang2057 Discovery of structures and their main routines of exchanging and processing views </h>}{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Discovering structures of exchanging and processing views and their dominant routines has been a domi
nant pre-occupation of researchers over the past few years. <#/>This is reflected by the variety of studies conducted by: <names/> <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
Dewey (1910); Simon (1969); Tuckman (1965); Schrenk (1969); Bales (1953, 1970); Witte (1972); Applbaum et al (1974); Mayntz (1976); Mintzberg et al (1976); Kowitz et al (1980); Boot et al (1985); Brown (1980); Churchill (1990a);}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X> and so on. <#/>These studies also used observations to identify the structures and routines of their processes of exchanging and processing view
s. <#/>We only discuss some of these by reflecting the structures and dominant routines that they identified. <#/>Bales (1953, 1970) shows that exchanging and processing views may be structured into: orientation; evaluation; control; and then classifies t
h
e activities of those elements into: positive-emotional acts; attempted answers; questions asked; and negative-emotional acts. <#/>Positive socio-emotional acts consist of: seeming friendly, dramatizing, agreeing with. <#/>Dramatizing is a routine that is
 associated with promoting warmth, solidarity, and friendliness.
\par <#/>Attempted answers consists of: giving suggestions or advice, giving opinions, and giving information. <#/>Questions asked consists of: asking for information, asking for opinions, and aski
ng for suggestions. <#/>Negative socio-emotional acts consists of: disagreeing, showing tension, and seeming unfriendly. <#/>Bales (1950, 1954) shows that on average, 50% of all activities of exchanging and processing views are answers and the rest are qu
estions and reactions or comments; that answers reveal suggestions, opinions, and ideas: that tension build up emerges whenever there is not sufficient time for asking questions and giving reactions.
\par <#/>Scheidel (1964) and Kowitz et al (1980) show that exc
hanging and processing of views may be structured into: orientation; formation of roles and a strategy; coordination of views; formulation of a group decision. <#/>Orientation is characterized by activities that develop acceptable interpersonal behaviour,
 
that explore parameters and requirements of the decision task, that aim at assessing the characteristics of each of the members including the leader (eg friendly, talkative, quiet, etc.), defining the decision task in terms of the concepts and cognitive s
t
yles of the members (Hackman 1969). <#/>So it consists of: giving tentative and ambiguous comments, seeking clarifications on given comments, agreeing with or supporting given comments, suggesting and reinforcing the given suggestions, giving tentative op
i
nions. <#/>Formation of roles and a strategy is identified by acts which set objectives and specify what ought to be done and how in order to resolve the decision task. <#/>Therefore, it consists of: asking questions, answering questions, setting specific
 
objectives, identifying procedures and acts to be carried out. <#/>It also develops some conflict when identifying procedures to be used to achieve the objectives set. <#/>Coordination of views is characterized by increased generation of information by gi
ving more views and reviewing issues emerging from previous stages, and by suggesting different alternatives. <#/>So it consists of: searching for meanings of different views as well as links between meanings <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Tuckman 1965)}{
\fs24\lang2057 </X>, resolving ambiguities an
d conflicts which emerge in meanings, giving suggestions, giving favourable comments, substantiating the comments, interpreting several comments one after another. <#/>Formulation of the group decision consists of: choosing one alternative which is both s
uitable and acceptable to all or the majority of the members, agreeing with the form and content of the group decision, congratulating each other for making the group decision <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Fisher 1970)}{\fs24\lang2057 
</X>. <#/>The act of agreeing with the group decision as well as its form and content is satisfying to all or the majority of the members.
\par <#/>Tuckman (1965) structures exchanging and processing views into: forming; storming; norming; and performing. <#/>Forming consists of: determining the parameters of the decision t
ask, exploring how to go about dealing with the decision task, deciding what information to seek, and what resources to be utilized to resolve the decision task. <#/>It is used to develop and set the appropriate interpersonal behaviour as well as for exam
i
ning the leadership abilities of all members. <#/>Storming is characterized by the emergence of internal conflict with polarization around key interpersonal issues. <#/>It emerges because members express their personal views and to resist social influence
,
 and emotional reactions emerge as members find their orientations differ from what the decision task demands. <#/>Norming is characterized by the development of cohesion or team spirit as members see themselves as part and parcel of the decision process.
 
<#/>As a result, it leads to the refinement and development of acceptable standards and roles, to the avoidance of unnecessary conflicts, to open exchanges of views with increased willingness to listen, consider and accept other views. <#/>That is, it is 
u
sed for sorting out most interpersonal issues and for developing a more flexible and practical framework of roles of members. <#/>Performing is characterized by the increase in effort and desire for resolving the decision task. <#/>So it consists of activ
ities that develop alternatives, and that lead to choosing an alternative which is both suitable and acceptable to members. <#/>These elements and their activities are described in details in Tuckman (1965).
\par <#/><-/Applbaum> et al (1974) argue that exchangi
ng and processing views involves giving and receiving (ie listening to) views and that it can be structured into: communicators (ie. members); messages (ie views); interactions; and situational context. <#/>The contents of each of those elements are descr
ibed in <-/Applbaum> et al (1974).</I>
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>S.L. Mwasele, m, 40+, Nyakyusa Ph.D thesis 1993</&>
\par }{\b\fs24\lang2057 W2A010T
\par <I> <h> }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\caps\fs24\lang2057 1.0 english and kiswahili in advertisements }{\b\fs24\lang2057 </h>}{\b\caps\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 <h> <#/>}{\caps\fs24\lang2057 1.1 preamble}{\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 The study focuses on advertisements in our local newspapers in Kiswahili and on the recently opened Independent Television station (ITV). <#/>The area of interest is on the advertisements which are in Kiswahili and in English.

\par <#/>The study seeks to find out whether having some advertisements in Kiswahili and others in English symbolizes anything. <#/>IT further looks into reasons for such an occurrence.
\par <h> <#/>1.2 STATEMENT OF THE PROBLEM </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 It is our assumption that our local newspapers in Kiswahili are meant for people who know Kiswahili. <#/>Even if they know other languages like French, English, Portuguese, and so on, they must know Kiswahili.
\par <#/>Being a Kiswahili newspaper, we assume also that tit will have everything in Kiswahili. <#/>Likewise in newspapers written in English we assume everything will 
be in English. <#/>For people who know Kiswahili but do not know English, we expect them to buy Kiswahili papers. <#/>Similarly for those who do not know Kiswahili, we do not expect them to buy newspapers written in Kiswahili. <#/>We do not expect people 
t
o buy newspapers in a language they do not know. <#/>That is why an English newspaper like the Daily News does not have a column special for those who do not know English. <#/>The same applies to our Kiswahili newspaper, they too have no column special fo
r those who do not know Kiswahili. <#/>In both Uhuru and Majira newspapers for instance there is no special column for English speakers.
\par <#/>The problem occurs in the newspapers predominantly in Kiswahili as well as in ITV where there are some advertisements in Kiswahili and others in English. <#/>We want to know whether that mixture is done randomly or deliberately.
\par <#/>If the latter is the case, then, what are the reasons behind having some advertisement of English in newspapers predominantly in Kiswahili?
 <#/>Similarly, what are the reasons behind having a mixture of advertisements in English in a television whose programmes are mainly in Kiswahili?
\par <#/>Is there any group meant for these advertisements in English which appear in newspapers and television programmes predominantly in Kiswahili?
\par <#/>Therefore our concern here is not the communicative value of English as a language but rather the symbolic value of English in a country like Tanzania where English is regarded as prestigious and international.
\par <h> <#/>1.3 HYPOTHESES </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 The occurrence of English advertisements in predominantly Kiswahili newspapers, and television programmes is not by coincidence but rather it is planned and there are reasons for it.
\par <#/>The advertisements in Kiswahili, for ex
ample, those of revola, sheladol, home <-_equipments><+_equipment>, local bank services, postal services, insurance and so on are meant for all Tanzanians. <#/>That is why they are in Kiswahili. <#/>However those on expensive and luxurious alcoholic drink
s like whisky or brandy, luxurious cars, bureau de changes, international banks and hotels are not meant for everybody. <#/>That is why they are in English.
\par <#/>The nature of the product, does not only determine the customers, but also, the kind of language to be used in advertisements.
\par <#/>The occurrence of some advertisements in Kiswahili and others in English symbolizes, especially to the group meant, the ideas of modernity, eliticism and social advance in general.
\par <#/>Therefore the use of languages in advertisements consciously or unconsciously emerges as a powerful mechanism in showing social stratification among Tanzanians. <#/>That is the <-_elites><+_elite> who use English and the rest who do not use English.

\par <h> <#/>1.4 SCOPE OF THE STUDY </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 The study concentrates on the advertisements in our Kiswahili newspapers of Uhuru, Majira and Nipashe and or the ITV television programmes.
\par <#/>It is expected that some advertisements will be taken as a sample to represent other advertisements which appear in the news media.
\par <#/>The study restricts itself to commercial consumer advertisements. <#/>That is, those advertisements directed towards a mass audience with the aim of promoting sales of a commercial product or service <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Leech, G. 1966: 25)}{
\fs24\lang2057 </X>. <#/
>This is done in recognition of wide range of meaning which advertisement covers to include the advertisements done by government departments and non-profit making bodies such as charities. <#/>Also we exclude public announcements, public relations and pu
blic polemics. <#/>Our focus is on commercial advertising which is the kind which uses money, professional skills and advertising space in the country.
\par <h> <#/>1.5 CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 The study is on the use of English and Kiswahili for advertising in the mass media. <#/>The area of concentration centres around the factors governing the selection of languages to be used in advertisements.
\par <#/>We are trying to find out the social motives and specific reasons for the occurrence of advertisements of English in Kiswahili newspapers or the television programmes which are predominately in Kiswahili.
\par <#/>Such reasons will help us to highlight the symbolic use of English in Tanzania. <#/>We are going to deal with a language as it is used not in order to co
mmunicate linguistically, but to lay claims to the attributes associated symbolically with speakers of that language.
\par <#/>What happens when there is a mixture of English advertisements in Kiswahili newspapers which are read by majority who are not speakers
 of English? <#/>We focus our attention to the picture associated with those who are meant in such advertisements. <#/>This picture is linked with the association of English with ideas of modernity and social advancement, thus creating a gap between Engli
sh speakers and non-English speakers.
\par <h> <#/>2.0 LITERATURE REVIEW </h>
\par <h> <#/>2.1 POSITION AND RELATION OF ENGLISH AND KISWAHILI </h>
\par <h> <#/>2.1.1 COLONIAL PERIOD </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Before independence, English was regarded as a language of the colonizers. <#/
>With an exception of lower primary school, it was a medium of instruction in other levels of education. <#/>Very few Africans spoke English because very few went to school. <#/>English was very much valued and every available effort was made to promote i
t. <#/>In Kenya, for example, where the situation was quite similar to Tanganyika Ngugi (1986: 11-12) states;}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057  }{\fs24\lang2057 <quote_>
\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>"Thus one of the most humiliating experiences was to be caught speaking Gikuyu in the vicinity of the school}{\fs24\lang2057 . <#/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 The culprit was 
given a corporal punishment... <#/>The altitude towards English was the exact opposite; any achievement in spoken or written English was highly rewarded prices, prestige, applause..." }{\fs24\lang2057 </X><quote/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 <h>}{ }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>2.1.2 POST-INDEPENDENCE ERA UP TO 1970s </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 D
uring this time Kiswahili was declared a national language and a medium of instruction in primary schools. <#/>In 1962 it was made a language of the Parliament. <#/>In that year, for the first time President J.K. Nyerere addressed the Parliament in Kiswah
ili.
\par <#/>English was considered a colonial language and its users were accused of having a `colonial hangover. <#/>There were negative attitudes towards English. <#/>However, English remained the official language, and a medium of instruction in higher educ
ation, the language of the judiciary, and the language of international trade and diplomacy.
\par <h> <#/>2.1.3 FROM 1980'S TO THE PRESENT </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 In this period English began to acquire a higher status. <#/>It was regarded as a technological language and the
 language necessary for our development. <#/>It is in this period when the government rejected a recommendation by the Presidential Commission on education to change the medium of instruction at secondary and tertiary levels of education from English to K
iswahili. <#/>Schimed J.J. (198: 106) quoted the then minister of education as saying:}{\b\fs24\lang2057  }{\fs24\lang2057 <quote_>
\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>"We must learn from foreign nations and in order to do so, we must use English to promote understanding in schools.}{\fs24\lang2057  </X><quote/>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Therefore, it was announced by the Minister of Education, that, English would continue to be used as the medium of instruction in secondary schools and higher learning institutions.
\par <h> <#/>2.2 LANGUAGE ATTITUDES IN TANZANIA </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Language attitudes in a country are a very important and central element in influencing language policy language learning and language use.
\par <#/>The expression of positive or negative feelings towards a language reflects the degree of importance or status the language has in the community or even the importance of people who use it as first or second language.
\par <#/>In Tanzania English is considered as a prestigious language compared to Kiswahili. <#/>it is taken as more beautiful and precise, and more appropriate in formal situations. <#/>However th
ese characteristics do not relate to phonological morphological or semantic features of a language.
\par <#/>On the study carried out by Abdulazis Mkilifi (1972) it was revealed that most educated Tanzanians preferred books, journals and the like in English to those of Kiswahili.
\par <#/>English language is associated with civilization modernity and education. <#/>A speaker of English is considered educated and civilized. <#/>This makes people code-switch English and Kiswahili to show that they are educated. <#/>Peo
ple think third it is impossible to pursue education without English. <#/>Some people believe that University academics are impossible without English <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (Khamis A.M. 1982)}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>.
\par <h> <#/>2.3 ENGLISH AS A CULTURAL SYMBOL </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 English language, as it is
 used, evokes connotations not only related to stereotyped notions and impression and status it has in the society, but also evokes connotations relating to stereotypes of the countries where it is spoken as a native language. <#/>For example U.S.A. and B
ritain.
\par <#/>Hudson R.A. says linguistic items which are learnt from other people are one part of the culture as a whole and as such are likely to be closely associated with other aspects of culture that are learned from the same people <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
(Hudson, R.A. 1980: 96)}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>. <#/>So, there is an association between languages and different sets of cultural beliefs and values and they activate such beliefs and values as it is used.
\par <#/>J. Cheshire and L.M. Moser (1994) dealt with this study of association of language 
and cultural symbols. <#/>They dealt specifically with English. <#/>They confined their study on the case of advertisements in French Speaking Switzerland. <#/>On their study, they made use of Haarmen (1989) whose research focused on the same aspect of la
nguage and culture, showing how English is used symbolically in Japanese television advertisements with no expectations that viewers will understand what they see or hear <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 (J. Cheshire and L.M. Moser, 1994: 451) }{\fs24\lang2057 
</X>.
\par <#/>Haarman (1989) reveals that Engl
ish has been used in this way in advertisements in Russia and other countries of the former Soviet Union. <#/>In Tanzania where the majority are not speakers of English, like Russian viewers are expected to associate English language with a particular set
 
of connotations rather than understanding the words or phrases they see. <#/>This is what Easteren and Stein (1993) call `language display' where a language is used not in order to communicate linguistically, across linguistic boundaries, but to lay claim
s to the attributes associates symbolically with speakers of that language. <#/>Here fluency and understanding are unnecessary for a language to be successfully used as display.
\par <#/>Haarman's analysis of advertisements on Japanese television reveals that wh
en English was used in a visual setting that was clearly British or American, it might evoke a stereotype of that country in association with ideas of modernity and social advance. <#/>To Japanese the use of English in TV commercials, makes them feel that
 they are members of a modern, `cosmopolitan' society }{\v\fs24\lang2057 (J. Cheshire & L.M. Moser (1994) }{\fs24\lang2057 .
\par <#/>In Japan, TV viewers did not understand English that is why they associated its use with certain connotations.
\par <#/>In French speaking Switzerland, J. Cheshire and L
.M. Moser (1994: 459) say that even when the English words are understood, the fact that English has been chosen in advertisement may still have a symbolic meaning in itself over and above the literal meaning of the English words.
\par <#/>Leech, G. (1966: 58) 
commenting on the selection of languages in advertisement in Britain said that some variations in advertising language can be attributed to the nature of the envisaged audience, how they differ as regards to age, sex, social status or geographical area.

\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>"Differences of languages are most noticeable in advertising to audiences differing in social or educational studying"}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \lang2057 <#/>On the type of products being advertised, J. Cheshire and L.M. Moser revealed that local services such as chatlines insuran
ce and banks medicines and so on, tend to be advertised mainly or exclusively in French. <#/>On the other hand, products like camera, expensive radio etc. were advertised in English. <#/>With such an observation, they concluded that it is the nature of pr
oducts that determines whether English is used rather than the intended readership of the magazines in which it appear.
\par \pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>This can be linked with Leech's observation that advertising different kinds of products, obviously means making different choices in language <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
(Leech, G. 1966: 57)}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>.
\par <#/>J. <-/Chishire> et. al. observed that English occurs more frequently in advertisements for cigarette, cigar, shoes, watches, cars and alcohol then it does in advertisements for more '<-/mundame>' every day necess
ities such as household <-_equipments><+_equipment> and food. <#/>Here English was associated with fashions and luxurious mode of life (1994: 460). <#/>They suggested that English is used for display as discussed by Eastmon and Stein (1993). <#/>The use o
f English in advertisements for hifi equipment reflect association of English with science and technology.
\par <h> <#/>3.0 RESEARCH SIGNIFICANCE AND METHODOLOGIES </h>
\par <h> <#/>3.1 SIGNIFICANCE OF THE STUDY </h>
\par }{<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 Many scholars have studies English as a language which is not only one of the most widely spoken in the world, but also the main medium of international communication. <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>
Today we have a great deal of studies or both form and function of English in many countries where it is used.
\par <#/>However, there are very few studies on the way English language sometimes functions as cultural symbol, as a sign in itself.
\par <#/>Therefore, this study is an attempt to contribute in the studies of English functioning as a cultural symbol in Tanzania. <#/>We base our analysis or the symbolic use of English. <#/>
The study will try to demonstrate how English evokes connotations associated with its use as International language symbolizing professionalism and international appeal, modernity social advancement in Tanzania among its users. }{\fs24\lang2057 </X></I>

\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Lyiono, H.E. }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 The use of English and Kiswahili for advertising}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 . BA Education Research. June 1995 }{\b\caps\v\fs24\lang2057 
bi-literacy: the use of english and kiswahili for advertising in the mass media }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 </&>}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 
\par }}