{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1031{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\qj\ri-2977\keepn\nowidctlpar\adjustright \lang2057 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \lang2057 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0 \snext15 header;}{\*\cs16 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s17\qj\ri-2977\nowidctlpar\adjustright 
\lang2057 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text;}{\s18\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \v\lang2057 \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text 2;}}{\info{\title w2f0110101  Gakenia's strongest desire}{\author Ettle}{\operator Ettle}{\creatim\yr2000\mo12\dy28\hr12\min14}
{\revtim\yr2000\mo12\dy28\hr12\min14}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages40}{\nofwords22122}{\nofchars-32766}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws0}{\vern73}}\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1134 
\deftab708\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz425\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale121\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 W2F011K
\par <I> <h> <#/>Gakenia's strongest desire </h> 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \lang2057 {<#/>Three years in ward F had tailored Lucy to be modest, considerate - yet confident in her work. <#/>As she came into the ward, today she 
noticed a new occupant in bed thirteen. <#/>Lucy glanced at the temperature chart that hung on the wall at the head of the bed. <#/>The patient's name was there, Alice Gakenia.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {<#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 "Gakenia," Lucy called. <#/>"How are you?" <#/>This was the trick in the ho
spital. <#/>Always talk to the patients as if you had known them for a long time. <#/>Every nurse had learnt that trick of reading the name on the temperature chart and then calling the patient with all the familiarity one could force into one's voice. <#
/>But, of course, there were a few embarrassing situations when the wrong temperature chart hung by a bedside. <#/>This was not the case this time, for the patient in bed thirteen responded happily.
\par <#/>"I am fine, although I don't feel that well," she said.
\par <#/>"Give me your hand, Alice," Lucy said in a soothing voice, genuinely caring and without any air of condescension. <#/>Lucy took Gakenia's wrist and proceeded to count her pulse.
\par <#/>"What is it this time'?" Sister Maingi asked. <#/>Lucy was startled. <#/>Barely ten seconds had passed since she had taken Gakenia's arm.
\par <#/>"Lucy!" Sister Maingi roared and the ward almost shook. <#/>It was amazing how sister Maingi could roar. <#/>The nurses always gossiped that any woman who arrived in hospital before 
she was in labour was immediately gripped by unbearable labour pains on hearing the rumbling of Sister Maingi. <#/>The truth of this was never verified, though it sounded quite convincing. <#/>Lucy stopped in the middle of her counting and attended to Sis
ter Maingi.
\par <#/>"Look here, my child." <#/>Sister Maingi's voice became more gentle seeing the tension on Lucy's face. <#/>"You never examine any patient while standing on the left side of the bed."
\par <#/>Lucy had forgotten this taboo, and quickly went round to the right side of the bed.
\par <#/>"And, Lucy, you are to listen to the foetal heart every ten minutes for bed thirteen."
\par <#/>"But it is always done every fifteen minutes, Sister," Lucy said shyly trying to sound right for once.
\par <#/>"This isn't an average c
ase, so do as I say." Lucy did not ask why. <#/>In the ward, you are supposed to know things, not learn them. <#/>You learn in the nursing school. <#/>After the first readings, Lucy went back to the Sister's desk to record the findings in Gakenia's case s
h
eet. <#/>It was then she noticed a few details about Gakenia. <#/>This was her second pregnancy. <#/>The first pregnancy had ended in a caesarean section and now Gakenia had a trivial scar. <#/>She was of medium height and her pelvic assessment by Dr. Dav
e had been promising.
\par <#/>Ten minutes later, Gakenia was having quite frequent contractions of moderate strength and she asked Lucy, "Do you think I will have an easy delivery?"
\par <#/>"Well, you should if Dr. Dave thinks you will."
\par <#/>"I would not like to lose this baby."
\par <#/>"Did you lose the other one?" Lucy asked.
\par <#/>"Not during birth. <#/>She died a few hours after I was operated on. <#/>The doctor said it had suffered some damage before the operation."
\par <#/>"I am sorry to hear that, but this one will be fine."
\par <#/>"Do you love babies?"
\par <#/>"Every woman does," said Lucy.
\par <#/>"I don't think every woman does. <#/>When I talk even to women about my great desire to have a baby, they say I am madly in love with babies."
\par <#/>"It is all right to love babies. <#/>Now lie on your back. <#/>I want to hear if your baby is OK. <#/>Lucy waited for the contractions to subside to listen to the foetal heart. <#/>Tap-tap-tap... the heartbeat went. <#/>And she counted on - a hundred 
and forty-six, a hundred and fifty, a hundred and sixty-six!
\par <#/>"Sister Maingi!"
\par <#/>Why had she shouted? <#/>Gakenia might get scared.
\par <#/>"What is the matter? <#/>Isn't the baby all right?" asked Gakenia.
\par <#/>"Oh well... it's just a little thing."
\par <#/>"What has happened?" Sister Maingi shouted back.
\par <#/>"I think there is a foetal distress. <#/>The foetal heart rate is one hundred and sixty-six."
\par <#/>"What?" <#/>Now Sister Maingi was going to cause an earthquake. <#/>"Call the doctor." <#/>Sister Maingi was now louder than thunder.
\par <#/>"Speak softly," Lucy said. <#/>"The doctor is just in the next ward." <#/>It was now Lucy who retained that complacency and coolness of a medical staff. <#/>This was the golden rule in the hospital. <#/>Keep cool even if your
 clothes are on fire. <#/>And Lucy kept cool. <#/>She went to the next ward and talked to Dr. Dave.
\par <#/>"Doctor, the foetal heart rate in bed thirteen is a hundred and sixty-six."
\par <#/>"Is it regular?" asked Dr. Dave, his voice cooler than ice-cream.
\par <#/>"Yes, it is."
\par <#/>"Let's go over and have a look, young lady." <#/>They walked to the maternity ward. <#/>They found Sister Maingi frantic. <#/>Trying to confirm Lucy's finding, she was leaning on poor Gakenia's tummy, striving to listen to the foetal heart.
 <#/>Sister Maingi had the foetalscope the wrong way up!
\par <#/>"I think it has disappeared," she murmured.
\par <#/>"What has disappeared?" asked Dr. Dave.
\par <#/>"The foetal heartbeat," Sister Maingi groaned.
\par <#/>"No, I don't think so," said Dr. Dave gently, pulling Sister Maingi away. <#/>He listened for a few minutes and counted every one of those gentle tap-tap-taps.
\par <#/>"I agree, Lucy. <#/>There may be foetal distress here. <#/>Bring me a couple of gloves and the screens. <#/>I want to assess the descent of the presenting part."
\par <#/>Lucy went over to the sterile store and came back with gloves number nine. <#/>Everyone in the hospital knew that Dr. Dave wore gloves number nine. <#/>Dr. Dave had by far the largest hands in the hospital. <#/>It was no wonder. <#/>H
e was six feet three and built like a wrestler. <#/>At first sight you would never have thought he was a doctor. <#/>But he had brains, and his dexterity in surgery was unequalled. <#/>Bearing in mind his size, his manners and voice were sheer irony. <#/>
H
e had a rare, soft missionary voice. <#/>His manners were gentle and suited the mission well. <#/>Many called him Saint Francis incarnate. <#/>He was the life of the hospital, for he was the one who set the hopeful mood and pace. <#/>As for his faith, the
re was no question of it being anything short of genuine. <#/>Every elder in and around the hospital never saw any better example of a missionary. <#/>If Dr. Dave fell, then the hospital would also fall.
\par <#/>Dr. Dave put on the gloves without any ceremony. <#/>When it came to action, he never wasted any time.
\par <#/>"Head presenting, but there has been no descent for the last hour. <#/>Sister, call theatre and tell them to prepare for a section." The Sister passed the order to Lucy.
\par <#/>"Lucy, call theatre and tell them to prepare for a section."
\par <#/>"Thank you, Sister." Lucy was busy on the phone. <#/>"They say they will be ready in half an hour. <#/>They are informing the theatre sister," Lucy reported.
\par <#/>"Now go and continue with the observation of bed thirteen," Sister said as she followed the doctor out.
\par <#/>Lucy was left alone taking Gakenia's temperature, pulse rate, respiration rate and foetal heart rate as required. <#/>She was uneasy. <#/>Something was going wrong. <#/>She knew how Gakenia valued this
 baby and inwardly prayed that God would give it to her. <#/>It dawned on Lucy that she loved Gakenia for a reason she could not define. <#/>She looked at Gakenia's face and saw agony and anguish. <#/>Was she in such pain or was she afraid, afraid of losi
n
g this baby? She dared not ask. <#/>She was just slightly older than Lucy by the looks of her. <#/>Possibly this was why Lucy was so sympathetic towards her. <#/>No, this could not be the reason. <#/>Why then? Possibly it was because Gakenia had such a fa
c
e as reminded her of her mother. <#/>Was it because she too would obviously have to experience the same pangs of child-birth at one time? She did not know. <#/>Or could it be that there is an unconscious love that ties all beings of a similar nature to ea
ch other, making each feel the pain of the other? Whatever it was, Lucy was feeling the pain of Gakenia.
\par <#/>Forty minutes, and still no call from the theatre. <#/>The foetal heart rate was coming down. <#/>One hundred and twenty, one hundred and sixteen... <#/>Lucy called Dr. Dave over the phone. <#/>He was already in the theatre.
\par <#/>"Doctor, the foetal heart rate is a hundred and sixteen."
\par <#/>"Is it? <#/>Bring the patient over immediately."
\par <#/>"We have not yet contacted the theatre doctor."
\par <#/>"This is an emergency and we shall not wait."
\par <#/>"I know a bit about theatre. <#/>I think I'll come and assist," Lucy said confidently. <#/>She felt confident not because she knew she could handle the situation, but because she was ready to do everything possible to help Gakenia.
\par <#/>In less than five minutes, Gakenia was in the theatre. <#/>Lucy had mobilised all the labour-ward nurses, the stretcher had been available and Gakenia practically airlifted to the theatre.
\par <#/>"Carry on, Lucy," Lucy heard Dr. Dave say.
\par <#/>"He cannot mean it," she thought. <#/>"I was offering to help in handing over the sterile instruments, but not to assist the doctor."
\par <#/>"Quicker, Lucy. <#/>Time is short. <#/>And you over there, keep listening to the foetal heart. <#/>T
ell the patient not to push. <#/>She already has a scar." Gakenia was pushing hard now. <#/>"Do not push, young girl!" said Dr. Dave. <#/>There was a note of panic now even in Dr. Dave's voice. <#/>"Please, don't push!" <#/>But who can make a woman in lab
o
ur stop pushing? It is like swallowing only to be told not to swallow it when it is halfway down the throat. <#/>One cannot stop. <#/>One goes on swallowing. <#/>You do not even listen. <#/>Gakenia kept on pushing. <#/>She wished she could obey the doctor
, but she felt an irresistible urge to push.
\par <#/>"Don't push!" Dr. Dave at last shouted. <#/>"Get on, you, Mary. <#/>Give the anaesthesia."
\par <#/>There was real danger now. <#/>If the anaesthetist delayed any longer, Gakenia was going to rupture her uterus...
 <#/>and she did! <#/>She gave a loud gasp and clasped her abdomen with her hands. <#/>Blood streamed down between her legs and the nurse checking the foetal heart reported no heartbeat. <#/>It was too late. <#/>Or was it?
\par <#/>"What shall I do now, sir?" Mary, the anaesthetist, asked.
\par <#/>"Just go ahead and give the anaesthesia. <#/>We have to fight to save the mother if not the child as well." And the operation began.
\par <#/>Lucy was on the other side mopping up the blood, pulling that artery forceps and the 
other! <#/>She clamped the bleeding one and got ready to clamp the weak one. <#/>Now it was time to cut the suture and hand the doctor the retractor. <#/>They were now in the abdominal cavity. <#/>The whole area was full of blood. <#/>Gakenia must have bl
ed a lot.
\par <#/>"She has lost a lot of blood," Lucy said.
\par <#/>"Yes," said the doctor. <#/>"One of you girls there, fix an intravenous drip on the other hand." <#/>That was done.
\par <#/>Dr. Dave was now fishing out the baby entangled in the mess of blood. <#/>The
re was only one hope. <#/>If the placenta was still attached, the baby could still live. <#/>The uterus was not fully contracted and that was the first sign of hope. <#/>A linear tear was visible at the place of the old scar. <#/>"Let's get busy and open 
the uterus fully." <#/>Lucy's fingers met now and then with Dr. Dave's as they struggled to open the uterus. <#/>They pulled out the baby and it gave a very feeble cry.
\par <#/>"Clamp the cord, Lucy." <#/>Lucy clamped the cord twice and cut it out. <#/>"Go ahea
d and resuscitate the baby." <#/>Lucy took away the child to the resuscitating machine. <#/>It was a difficult job sucking out all that mucus and blood from its mouth. <#/>She worked with such enthusiasm that one would have thought that it was a baby from
 her own womb. <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 She sucked and sucked the baby's mouth, slapped the baby and directed a strong jet of oxygen into its face five times. <#/>She got no further cry from the baby.
\par <#/>"Sodium bicarbonate, nurse!" Lucy called. <#/>She had now become the doct
or, giving orders. <#/>But had she done these things before? <#/>They were coming so clearly in her memory. <#/>The sodium bicarbonate was brought and Lucy forced it into the umbilical vein.
\par <#/>Ten minutes... <#/>still no regular breathing. <#/>Gasp, gasp
, irregular gasps, and still no regular breathing. <#/>She should call the doctor but he was operating and the second doctor was off duty. <#/>She was now at the end of her tether. <#/>She had fully exhausted her nurse's knowledge on how to initiate regul
a
r breathing in an anoxic child. <#/>But she vaguely remembered when Sister Maingi had introduced a tube into a baby's trachea and flushed oxygen into the lungs rhythmically. <#/>The baby had lived. <#/>But Sister Maingi was a Sister and Lucy was only an e
n
rolled nurse! Even in life-saving procedures, there were rules of job description. <#/>The only alternative was to call Sister Maingi. <#/>What nonsense! <#/>To call Sister Maingi to theatre would require a whole day of waiting. <#/>She would have to chan
ge into theatre clothes, which for Sister Maingi would take hours! <#/>(She was so clumsy when it came to undressing and dressing that the nurses always wondered how many hours she usually took to dress at home.)
\par <#/>Lucy decided not to call Sister Maingi. 
<#/>She might as well have signed a mortuary form for the baby. <#/>She loved this baby very much and was going to do everything possible to save it. <#/>She was going to push in that tube just as Sister Maingi had done.
\par <#/>"Which tube do you mean?" quest
ioned the nurse she had sent. <#/>Lucy had actually forgotten the name of the instrument, but after repeating "Not that one," she succeeded in getting the right tube. <#/>In a minute or two, Lucy had slipped the tube into the baby's wind-pipe and was read
y
 for the action of pumping in and out of the little infant's lungs. <#/>Lucy's face shone as she saw the infant's chest heave up and down. <#/>Here was the breath of life oxygen rushing right into the lungs. <#/>Very soon the heaves became regular. <#/>Th
e
 heartbeat also, previously wild, was now regular. <#/>The baby's colour changed from heavenly blue to the dark brown of the rich soil of volcanic highlands. <#/>Here were the signs of life. <#/>Here was life itself. <#/>Ten more minutes and Lucy had to r
e
move this bothersome tube to let the baby cry. <#/>The baby had been saved. <#/>The miracle had been performed. <#/>By Lucy? <#/>No. <#/>This was a mission hospital. <#/>The miracle was by God, and Lucy was only an instrument in the hands of the Almighty.
 <#/>But the other nurses were convinced that Lucy was solely responsible for saving the child.
\par <#/>On the other side, Dr. Dave was still fighting with Gakenia's blood vessels, which were threatening to bleed the life out of her. <#/>He was now closing the 
abdominal wall. <#/>The uterus had been sutured. <#/>It was very risky to have a ruptured uterus inside a fertile woman. <#/>That would be inviting the same disaster twice. <#/>The uterus had been removed, and with it the end of Gakenia's hope of another 
c
hild. <#/>But poor Gakenia knew nothing of this as she lay there, calm and peaceful. <#/>One hour past the normal hospital duty time, Lucy was sitting next to Gakenia in the intensive care unit. <#/>Two pints of blood were flowing into her veins, thanks t
o
 that genius who discovered blood transfusion. <#/>She was even capable of talking now. <#/>She had overheard a bit of the nurses gossiping as they talked of Lucy's miracle in saving her baby. <#/>The whole story was running from one ward to another in su
ch a speed as supersedes U.S. <#/>presidential election results. <#/>Even the cooks knew before Gakenia left the hospital that it was Lucy who had rescued Gakenia's baby from the hideous jaws of death.
\par <#/>Gakenia was talking to Lucy.
\par <#/>"Who is Lucy?" she asked. <#/>All this while, Gakenia did not know the name of the nurse who had spent the most time attending her.
\par <#/>"Lucy who?" Lucy asked.
\par <#/>"I don't know her other name, but everybody says that she is the one who saved my child."
\par <#/>"Oh, I see. <#/>I'll introduce her to you when you get well." <#/>She smiled shyly.
\par <#/>"I am so happy that the child is alive. <#/>I pray to God to keep her for a hundred years."
\par <#/>"He surely will," Lucy said.
\par <#/>"And then I'll give her a brother and possibly a sister."
\par <#/>What was that she said? <#/>Lucy's heart wept inside. <#/>Give her a brother? A sister? <#/>Who will ever explain her operation to her? <#/>Lucy's eyes were becoming wet. <#/>"I am happy you came through. <#/>It was also a difficult time for you."

\par <#/>"Yes," said Gakenia. <#/>"I'll still go through it again for another baby. <#/>I would risk anything for a sweet baby."
\par <#/>That was enough for Lucy. <#/>"Now I have to go," she said. <#/>"I'll see you tonight."}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Muchira, Lydia \lquote Gakenia's Strongest Desire\rquote 
\par From: W. Kabira/M. Karega/E. Nzioki (eds) }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 Our Secret Lives}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057  (1990), Phoenix Publishers, 99-105 (107) pp</&>
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par W2F012K
\par <I> <h> <#/>My co-wife, my sister </h>
\par <#/>"Why did I pay your father?"
\par <#/>(Silence.)
\par <#/>"Twenty goats and five cows. <#/>Why do you think I gave them to your father?" 
\par <#/>(Silence.)
\par <#/>She had heard this reminder almost daily for over fifteen years.
\par <#/>It all began three years after her marriage. <#/>The man began to show signs of frustration and anger. <#/>He
 had been good during the first three years. <#/>He had often referred to her as his "bride". <#/>He had boasted of her, of her beauty, of the goats he had given to her parents - and Waceera felt satisfied with herself. <#/>She would repeat the <ea/>kirir
o she had sung in her eight days of initiation again and again,
\par <#/>"I, Waceera,
\par Daughter of Kigotho.
\par I, Waceera,
\par I have left Kigotho's cows being milked.
\par <#/>I feel like a dry riverbed,
\par <#/>The dances I used to dance
\par I cannot dance them any more.
\par <#/>I, Waceera,
\par Daughter of Kigotho.
\par <#/>Travellers, travellers
\par As you walk along the paths,
\par If you meet Kigotho,
\par Tell him that I am
\par Like a dry riverbed.
\par Life for me has died."
\par <#/>In the first three years of marriage, she used to sing this song just to remind herself of those eight days of initiation. <#/>But now, fifteen years' experience in marriage had made her begin to sing this song for a different reason.
\par <#/>She felt truly like a dry riverbed. <#/>No life flowed in her. <#/>She walked like a zombie. <#/>Often she could be seen talking to herself. <#/>Nobody understood what she was saying. <#/>Word went round that she was mentally sick.
\par <#/>Many women neighbours, wondering 
what was happening to the beautiful daughter of Kigotho, kept asking her co-wife, daughter of Kuria, what was happening to Waceera. <#/>Njeri, the co- wife, would say, "I shall find out. <#/>Please help me find out because I am worried too."
\par <#/>Yet, the n
eighbours did not believe Njeri. <#/>They continued to ask each other and even said that Njeri knew what was going on. <#/>Some even suggested that Njeri could have bewitched Waceera. <#/>But Njeri was not that kind of person. <#/>She had been married to 
Njoroge for eight years before Waceera came in as her co-wife. <#/>Now she had eight children, five girls and three boys.
\par <#/>Njeri used to watch her children go to Waceera's house every evening and sit with her. <#/>They laughed with her. <#/>She cooked fo
r them and always gave them the food "with an outstretched hand". <#/>She was a very generous woman, at least to these children. <#/>Njeri observed that as soon as her children were able to crawl, they would crawl to Waceera's house. <#/>Waceera would ope
n
 the door for the baby, hold it up and then put it against her chest and talk to it, "You have come. <#/>I'm glad to see you. <#/>I shall now give you some porridge and anything else you want." <#/>She would then go into her house, cool the porridge and f
eed the baby. <#/>When Waceera was going to the garden, the baby would then crawl back to its mother's house.
\par <#/>The gossip and rumours that Njeri had bewitched her co-wife were therefore groundless. <#/>But now, fifteen years of childlessness, fifteen yea
rs of verbal and physical abuse, fifteen years of inner loneliness had worn Waceera out. <#/>The burden was too much. <#/>Her heart was aching and her head felt heavy. <#/>She tried to smile to the children, but in vain.
\par <#/>As the man sat there screaming 
about the number of goats and cows that he had given to Waceera's parents, her mind was very far away. <#/>He sounded so distant from her that she didn't feel the need to explain. <#/>In her mind she travelled a long, long distance and found a river. <#/>
T
he river was flowing quietly and she talked to it. <#/>She remembered that among her clansmen, you were supposed never to keep something to yourself if it bothered you too much. <#/>Her mother had even told her that if girls were forced to make love and w
ere warned not to tell anybody, they should at least tell a river, a tree, a mountain, a stone or a small child who did not understand.
\par <#/>She looked at the river, saw its flow and felt comforted. <#/>She felt that this river would listen to her and share 
her suffering. <#/>She spoke, "River, I do not have a child. <#/>I yearn for a child. <#/>I know that this is why my husband beats me and abuses me. <#/>He has even refused to sleep with me. <#/>He says it's useless. <#/>River, I want to die. <#/>I want t
o flow with you."
\par <#/>She was about to throw herself into the river when she felt somebody put her hand on her shoulders and say, "Come with me, my co-wife. <#/>Please, come with me."
\par <#/>"No, Njeri, I can't. <#/>Let me die. <#/>I don't want to live. <#/>Let me die. <#/>Let me die. <#/>I can't live anymore."
\par <#/>Tears were flowing down her cheeks but Njeri continued, "No, do not die. <#/>You have to live because you have a job to do. <#/>Come with me."
\par <#/>Waceera had always respected her co-wife. <#/>She felt that she treated her like a mother, and so she stood up and walked home with her. <#/>At the door, she said again to Njeri, "Mama Wanjiru, I have no children and this man is going to kill me."

\par <#/>At that moment, Wanjiru, the eldest daughter of Njeri, c
ame from behind the house and stood at the door. <#/>All the other children followed. <#/>They stood there for a few seconds and then Nyambura, the fourth daughter of Njeri, came forward. <#/>She embraced her step-mother saying, "Mama, never say that agai
n. <#/>I am your daughter."
\par <#/>The others said in chorus, "We too are your children."
\par <#/>Waceera looked at them is disbelief. <#/>She knew that they called her mother and she felt ashamed that they knew her pain. <#/>She felt ashamed too that they had hea
rd what she had said. <#/>Nyambura was still holding on to her when Njeri said, "Nyambura, from now on you are your mother's child. <#/>When you have your second daughter, you will call her Waceera. <#/>You are now her daughter and you shall live in her h
ouse. <#/>I named you my sister and your mother has been my co-wife and sister. <#/>I therefore want my sisters to stay together. <#/>Can you now go and make us some tea?"
\par <#/>Nyambura released herself from her "mother's" arms and went to the fireplace. <#/>The other children came in and the two wives and their children celebrated the "birth" of Nyambura to Waceera.
\par <#/>Njoroge had stormed out of the house when Waceera had started talking, supposedly to herself. <#/>Therefore he was not there neither for the
 ritual nor the celebrations and nobody ever said anything about them to him. <#/>It remained a secret between the co-wives and the children.
\par <#/>As time passed, Njoroge became more and more puzzled. <#/>Waceera had suddenly changed. <#/>She walked around 
cheerfully and with confidence. <#/>She talked to him calmly and did not ask him for anything. <#/>She didn't care whether he slept with her or not. <#/>When he called her to his <ea/>thingira, she'd stand at the door and say, "Did you call me, Baba Nyamb
ura?"
\par <#/>"Why? <#/>Didn't you hear?"
\par <#/>"I was just confirming," she'd say.
\par <#/>She seemed to have felt a new life within her. <#/>She had stopped singing the <ea/>kiriro and was singing happier tunes. <#/>Nyambura, Njeri's daughter, had moved to Waceera'
s house. <#/>The man could not explain why - and he dared not ask, for he could not understand what was going on. <#/>At times he thought that Waceera might be pregnant and that the joy of the possibility of having a child had transformed her. <#/>But he 
was wrong. <#/>Yet, year in, year out, the woman seemed to grow stronger and happier.
\par <#/>Njoroge's children began getting married. <#/>One after the other, the girls went to their new homes. <#/>At last it was Nyambura's turn to get married. <#/>The beer was brought. <#/>The women sang and celebrated!
\par <#/>"Let it be drunk,
\par <#/>Let it be drunk.
\par <#/>The beer is from the child,
\par <#/>It is a child that has
\par <#/>Brought us here.
\par <#/>Let us drink and wash
\par <#/>Ourselves in it!"
\par <#/>The wedding was eventually over and Nyambura settled in her new home. <#/>She was generally happy and her mother Waceera visited her quite often.
\par <#/>After a year or so, she had a baby girl which she named, according to custom, after her husband's moth
er. <#/>Soon after, she conceived again and Waceera started taking care of her. <#/>She was hoping, hoping all the time that her daughter would give birth to another girl.
\par <#/>Her prayers were answered. <#/>Nyambura gave birth to a beautiful baby girl. <#/
>Her mother Njeri, her mother Waceera, and her father went to see her in the house. <#/>When they arrived, Waceera could hardly wait. <#/>She went straight for the baby and held her up. <#/>She held the baby closely to her bosom and looked at Nyambura. <#
/>Nyambura understood her anxiety and immediately said, "She is Waceera."
\par <#/>Waceera's eyes clouded, and hot tears flowed down her cheeks. <#/>Njeri said to her, "It's fine to cry for joy, my sister."
\par <#/>Njoroge looked from one to the other. <#/>The three
 women seemed to understand each other, but he was lost. <#/>Nyambura then looked at her mother Njeri and said, as she gave her the baby, "Mama, hold your sister, your co-wife." <#/>Njeri took the baby and blessed it, gave it back to the mother and then e
mbraced her co-wife. <#/>Only then did Njoroge understand what had happened. </I>
\par <I> <h> <#/>I cannot sign </h>
\par <#/>"I cannot sign."
\par <#/>"Why not?"
\par <#/>"I just can't."
\par <#/>"Why not?"
\par <#/>"Her children."
\par <#/>"What about them?"
\par <#/>"Their mother's blood will be on my head. <#/>They will suffer. <#/>Our husband is already on trial. <#/>He might be hanged and the children will be orphans. <#/>I couldn't live with that."
\par <#/>"Do you know how many people she has <slang/>gotten killed?"
\par <#/>"I know, but I don't want to be like her. <#/>If we cannot sympathize with her children, who also call me mother, then we have no business fighting for freedom."
\par <#/>"You know she could get you killed."
\par <#/>"Yes, she has tried already, but I shall not sign to have my children's mother's blood shed. <#/>You can kill me, but I will not sign."
\par <#/>The freedom fighters looked at each other, before telling Wanjiru to go out while they decided what to do. <#/>As she stood in the outer room of the freedom fighters' house at Milimani, her mind went back to the day when the whole thing started.

\par <#/>The day before the Lari massacre, she had given birth to a baby girl. <#/>The baby had died immediately after birth and since it was those bad times, no ceremonies were held. <#/>She remembered 
that Mr. <#/>Mbugua, who was a distant relative and a neighbour, had buried the baby for her. <#/>Her husband was in Nairobi doing business and now that the Emergency had started, he preferred to stay in town where he felt it was safer.
\par <#/>The night after
 the baby was buried, the Lari massacre began. <#/>Wanjiru was alone in the house with her five children, aged between two and twelve. <#/>She heard the screaming of suffering people and saw the blazing of houses on fire. <#/>She instructed her children n
ot to get out of bed.
\par <#/>"If we have to die, let us die together," she told them.
\par <#/>They waited for the morning, which took a very long time to come. <#/>Every few minutes, she'd ask her eldest son, "Waweru, have you heard the cock crow?"
\par <#/>"No, mother."
\par <#/>After a long, frightening wait, the morning came. <#/>The children stood at the door to see what was going on. <#/>They reported to the mother that there was a lot of movement going on. <#/>People were carrying their children and property away. <#/>
Their two step-mothers were doing the same. <#/>Waweru came and said, \ldblquote Mother, everybody is leaving."
\par <#/>"Waweru, I can't even move out of bed. <#/>Come closer."
\par <#/>The boy went to the bed where his sick mother lay.
\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>"You see, we shall have to wait until I am a little better. <#/>Now I am very weak. <#/>If I get out of bed, I will collapse. <#/>Get the children together and pray."
\par <#/>Waweru brought the other four children. <#/>As they knelt by the mother's bed, Waweru prayed. <#/>"God, our Father, make our mother well. <#/>We have to get out of here because we might be killed. <#/>We ask you this in Jesus' name."
\par <#/>"Amen," they all said.
\par <#/>The children then went outside. <#/>But a few minutes later, a hail of bullets sent them running back i
n. <#/>There was shooting everywhere, so they locked themselves in the house. <#/>The only other sound that could be heard was that of Wanjiru groaning with pain. <#/>The children huddled together in fear and waited for the shooting to stop.
\par <#/>After abou
t an hour, it stopped. <#/>Waweru went outside the house to get some firewood. <#/>Maybe a cup of tea for his mother might ease the pains. <#/>He lit the fire, and the smoke could be seen from very far away. <#/>Beth, coming back from taking her children 
t
o safer ground, saw the smoke. <#/>She had heard that Wanjiru had had a baby who had died. <#/>She decided to go there and find out what was going on. <#/>She was not afraid because the home guards knew she was not a Mau Mau. <#/>The Mau Mau also knew tha
t she never reported anybody. <#/>She was a staunch Christian. <#/>She just went to church and prayed that the war would end.
\par <#/>She knocked at the door and Waweru opened it.
\par <#/>"Waweru, what are you doing here?"
\par <#/>The boy kept quiet.
\par <#/>"Where is your mother?"
\par <#/>"She is lying on the bed. <#/>She is very sick."
\par <#/>Beth went into the hut and straight to the bed. <#/>"Wanjiru, sorry about the baby. <#/>It is God's will. <#/>Now you have to get up. <#/>Everybody has left this ridge. <#/>Things are very 
bad. <#/>I have taken my children to safety and I was coming to get a few things when I saw smoke in your house."
\par <#/>Wanjiru replied to her, "I can't get up. <#/>I have been bleeding since the baby came. <#/>I have eaten nothing and I am weak and in pain.
 <#/>Do me a favour. <#/>Just escort my children to my mother's place so that they can be safe. <#/>If you take them as far as Ruiru, Waweru will then lead them to their grandmother."
\par <#/>"I will do that, then I will come back. <#/>If you are still alive, I will then take you to safety."
\par <#/>Just then, Waweru brought in two cups of tea. <#/>Beth said, "Good boy. <#/>Now, leave the two cups for your mother and tell the other children to get ready. <#/>Take two pairs of shorts and shirts for the boys and two 
dresses each for the girls. <#/>I shall escort you to Ruiru after which you can go to your grandmother's."
\par <#/>"What about mother?"
\par <#/>"I shall come back for her."
\par <#/>"No, you take the other children. <#/>I will wait here with mother," said Waweru.
\par <#/>"No, I cannot do that because when we reach Ruiru, they cannot find their way on their own," said Beth, indicating with her hands that she meant the other children.
\par <#/>"OK, let's hurry then, so you can come back for my mother."
\par <#/>Beth and the children found their way to the grandmother's house. <#/>After a few days, Beth managed to take Wanjiru to Ruiru to join her children and mother.
\par <#/>In this house there were many other people who had run away from homes that were near the forests for fear of being accused of harbouring the Mau Mau, especially after the Lari massacre.
\par <#/>Wanjiru slept until she had recovered her strength. <#/>She was still very tired, but here, her mother and her sisters took care of her. <#/>They fed her whatever they could find. <#
/>Soon after, the shooting and general harassment that had taken place in Lari started anew, this time in Limuru. <#/>She remembered that three homes where they were staying were burnt. <#/>The Mau Mau were supposed to have been in there.
\par <#/>Two days late
r, Wanjiru's husband sent a message that she should bring the children with her to Nairobi. <#/>The co-wife had told the colonial government that the Mau Mau had been sharpening their knives in Wanjiru's house, so the home guards were looking for her.

\par <#/>
Wanjiru was therefore smuggled into Nairobi with her children. <#/>By now she was feeling a little better, and when they arrived, she was able to feed the children. <#/>She was staying near Mlango Kubwa. <#/>On the same compound, there were many other wom
en who had been smuggled out of the countryside to protect them from home guards.
\par <#/>She stayed with her husband for three days, after which he was arrested and taken to Githunguri for trial. <#/>The case went on for over one and a half years and finally h
er husband was acquitted of the <-/>offense, thanks to his Indian lawyer. <#/>He was, however, detained.
\par <#/>During their time in Nairobi, the urban Mau Mau guerrillas used to come to their compound for a meal. <#/>She and the other women would feed them, 
and then they would leave. <#/>Two of them who came frequently were identified by Wanjiru's co-wife, who reported to the home guards. <#/>The next time they came for lunch, the two Mau Mau men were ambushed and arrested.
\par <#/>Wanjiru's tears flowed down her cheeks as she remembered that terrible day. <#/>The two men were beaten so badly that as they were being taken by the soldiers, they were as good as dead. <#/>They could not talk or move or even see.
\par <#/>The women on the compound looked on. <#/>The two me
n were put in a van, and the soldiers came back. <#/>They started beating the women, even the pregnant ones, asking them why they had not reported to the police. <#/>Two of them lost their babies as a result, not to mention their own lives.
\par <#/>While all this was happening, Wanjiru was standing at the door of her room holding on to her two-year-old baby girl. <#/>The soldiers kept asking the rest of the women, "Who is Wanjiru?"
\par <#/>"We don't know her."
\par <#/>Nobody said that Wanjiru was standing there. <#/>On
e of the soldiers came and took Wanjiru's baby. <#/>He threatened to throw the baby down if the other women did not identify Wanjiru. <#/>Just then, the baby clutched on to the baby's nose. <#/>`Maybe the nose looked strange, as if it could be plucked out
,' thought Wanjiru. <#/>The soldier looked at the baby, who was still holding on to his nose, and then gave the baby back to its mother. <#/>He told the other soldiers that that was enough for the day.
\par <#/>Minutes later, a car with Mau Mau fighters came and took the bodies of the women away. <#/>Soon after they left, another car came for Wanjiru and her children. <#/>\ldblquote 
We have to take you away to safety. <#/>They will come back for you before nightfall or at night.\rdblquote 
\par <#/>Wanjiru took her children and got into the car. <#/>She was taken to another house in Eastleigh. <#/>From there, she used to go to court to listen to her husband\rquote s case. <#/>It was when she was there that two men were sent from the Mau Mau 
office in Milimani to get her to sign that Mau Mau should get rid of her co-wife.
\par <#/>\ldblquote Come back, Wanjiru, \ldblquote  a voice said from the other room.
\par <#/>Wanjiru entered the room where the Mau Mau fighters were deliberating. <#/>One of them said to her, \ldblquote We have 
reached a verdict. <#/>We cannot kill you, as you asked us to do. <#/>You are one of us and we cannot destroy ourselves. <#/>We shall not kill your co-wife either, since you have reasoned with us. <#/>We shall protect you as much as we can. <#/>We will, h
owever carry out various activities to threaten and intimidate your co-wife so that she stops her activities. <#/>Agreed?
\par <#/>Wanjiru replied, \ldblquote Agreed. <#/>Meanwhile, I shall continue to work for land and freedom without fear or regret.\rdblquote }{\fs24\lang2057 </X>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Kabira, Wanjiku 'My co-wife, my sister' and 'I cannot sign' 
\par From: W. Kabira/M. Karega/E. Nzioki (eds) }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 Our Secret Lives }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 (1990), Phoenix Publishers, pp 26-31, 35-36 (40)}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 </&>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par }\pard\plain \s2\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \lang2057 {W2F013F
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <I> <h> <#/>A Cure for Executive Stress </h>
\par <#/>There are three of us... <#/>
\par <#/>One is my husband, aged 51, responsible father of three children, the legal head of the family. <#/>The other is my lover, aged 31, unmarried, no children and responsible to nobody but himself. <#/>In the middle, there is me, 41, mother of three, lovi
ng wife and a solid pillar in the household.
\par <#/>Life is not easy for a business executive. <#/>A big plush office in the new skyscrapers everyone calls plazas, three phones ringing incessantly from morning to evening and making my ears buzz at the end of t
he day, clients calling in, meetings, business lunches. <#/>I feel like screaming with exhaustion by the time I get home. <#/>Fortunately, I have a company car and a company driver so I don't have to worry about negotiating my way through the incredibly c
haotic streets of Nairobi during rush hours. <#/>
\par <#/>At around six, the driver drops me home and goes to his quarters. <#/>I insisted on our housing him and his family on our compound so that he would be near on those days that I have official evening enga
gements. <#/>He is about 37, with a young wife (his third) who has given him four children, and a line of girlfriends. <#/>He must tell them in advance at which traffic lights to wait for him for we never make our way home without his waving at one of the
m and shouting: "See you later!" or "Tomorrow". <#/>The girl's eyes suddenly light up and she springs away joyfully to go and wait for the love of her life.
\par <#/>He must be a real stallion, our Kamotho, but I really like him because he is the most deferentia
l aide I could ever find. <#/>Kamotho does not know how to lose his temper, but he knows that when madam has lost hers, it is in his interest to be an angel and guess what she wants without her having to say a word. <#/>At such times, he negotiates his wa
y
 through thick traffic jams and miraculously gets me to my meeting or to the airport on time. <#/>If I forget something at home, he arranges for a different driver to go for it and carries on with my duties without my ever having to be inconvenienced for 
a minute.
\par <#/>By the time Kamotho drops me home at six o'clock, my nerves cannot take any more. <#/>I lie in the bath tub listening to soft music coming from my children's radio cassette player. <#/>Each one has her or his week to dee-jay for me. <#/>Though
 I like some of the selections more than others, I listen to all of them with love, trying not to show any preferences. <#/>Their special tutor (whom we hired three years ago since neither my husband's schedule nor mine allow us either the time or the sta
t
e of mind to be of much use to the children) is already there helping them with homework. <#/>She is a bright form six-level secondary school teacher, a good all-rounder and a perfect companion for the children. <#/>Kamotho used to drive her home after wo
rk, at 7.30 pm, but one day she came up to me and said:
\par <#/>"Excuse me please, Madam, I'd like to be going home on my own from now onwards."
\par <#/>"Why, what's happened?"
\par <#/>"Nothing, madam, I'd just rather be taking the bus."
\par <#/>"No, I'm not about to let myself get involved with the police in case you get attacked on the way."
\par <#/>"Then, if you don't mind, my boyfriend will be coming for me."
\par <#/>"Look, here, Mweni, tell me what happened and I'll look for a lasting solution."
\par <#/>"Nothing, madam."
\par <#/>"Then calculate the bus fare for both your boyfriend and yourself and bill me."
\par <#/>"Thanks so much, madam."
\par <#/>I was to learn much later from the boyfriend that Kamotho had mistaken her for one of his many loves and tried to get intimate with her. <#/>Mweni h
ad scratched him, bitten him and pulled his already exposed and all-ready manhood so hard that he had collapsed and she had jumped out of the car and run for her life. <#/>I remembered Kamotho looking uneasy at around that time and claiming to have been i
nvolved in a bar fight. <#/>No, Kamotho, I'll not pay you to inconvenience my household.
\par <#/>The following day, I called him. <#/>"Kamotho, I now know why Mweni insisted on your not taking her home. <#/>She tells me bus fare for her boyfriend and herself co
mes to three 350 shillings a month. <#/>I'll be deducting that amount from your salary every month from now on unless you have an objection."
\par <#/>"No, madam, I have no objection. <#/>Just deduct it," he said hastily.
\par <#/>Talk of crime not paying!
\par <#/>At a quarter to eight, the whole family is seated at table. <#/>If I have an evening engagement, I leave the house at nine unless it is for dinner in which case I wait for my husband to get home before leaving. <#/>He too does dine out once or twice a
 week but we try as much as possible to co-ordinate so that one of us is home with the kids.
\par <#/>My evening engagements include dinners, invitations to fashion shows, parties etc. <#/>It was at one such party that I met M.M. <#/>short for Music Maniac. <#/>
The party was full of young girls and boys in their twenties dancing as if they had been paid to do so. <#/>M.M. <#/>was competing with some girls in swinging their hips like Shala Mwana and the result sent the whole room roaring with laughter and clappin
g
 wildly. <#/>I must have taken a glass of wine too many for as soon as the music was over, I ululated and gave the young man a standing ovation and soon the whole room was up and ululating. <#/>The young man came over to invite me to dance, thereby sendin
g everyone shrieking with excitement. <#/>I declined and he sat down sulkily by my side until a young woman dragged him to his feet and soon he was gyrating his hips again, to our great amusement.
\par <#/>At last, someone requested that the young people give ro
om to the oldies for <ea/>wazee <ea/>hukumbuka. <#/>Immediately we rose to our feet and started dancing to Daudi Kabaka, Fadhili William, Miriam Makeba and Harry Belafonte. <#/>The young man approached me but a man my age laughingly told him that this was
 for over- forties. <#/>He went away only to reappear a few minutes later, his head covered in white powder and clowning by my side.
\par <#/>"Oh, my age-mate, please let our old bones stretch themselves together."
\par <#/>We danced and laughed the whole evening.
\par <#/>On Monday of the following week, he rang my office. <#/>"There's a Mr M.M. <#/>on the line."
\par <#/>"O.K. <#/>Put him through."
\par <#/>He was young and carefree. <#/>Job? <#/>Oh, yes, yes, he said as an afterthought, he was a manager.
\par <#/>Of what? <#/>Of insur
ance. <#/>I hired a private detective to check him out. <#/>He <-/broked> in everything imaginable: insurance, advertising space in newspapers and magazines, tenders for all sorts of goods required by international firms. <#/>Though he worked lightly, wal
ked and talked a lot, he made enough money to pay for his fancy clothes, apartment and old car.
\par <#/>Private life? <#/>A lot of girls on the dancing floor but had spent the last three weeks (since the party) alone. <#/>Keep checking. <#/>He had not dated any
 woman in five weeks. <#/>He was therefore a safe type to try out. <#/>In a sweet, motherly tone, I explained to him that these days it is too risky to have a close relationship with a stranger. <#/>I showed him my doctor's certificate and suggested that 
h
e pay her a visit. <#/>The results came a week later: danger free. <#/>What a relief! <#/>I decided against going to his place and insisted on his coming to my newly-rented service apartment so as to put him at a disadvantage psychologically. <#/>But he a
lways brings records and cassettes to listen to on the mini system I bought recently and likes to dance for me.
\par <#/>What do I find in him? <#/>Well, something that is lacking in both my husband and myself: that happy-go-lucky disposition that only those who
 are not burdened with responsibilities can enjoy. <#/>He has a contagious laugh and does not see beyond his nose. <#/>"When I'm old," he says like a <-/tenyear> old.
\par <#/>With my husband, we plan everything: when to take leave, when to visit which in-laws,
 when to make love so as to have a baby or so as not to have one. <#/>We calculate our money, our savings, children's insurance premiums, our investments, everything. <#/>When we talk, it is in a serious tone.
\par <#/>M.M. <#/>is ready to laugh at the most rid
iculous joke, ready to get onto a plane and leave the country as soon as I suggest that he accompany me on a trip abroad. <#/>He gets as excited as a six-year-old the moment we land in a new city and by the time I finish taking a bath and having a nap, he
 has already found his way around and knows how far my contacts are from our hotel, the shortest route to get there etc. <#/>M.M. is a walking computer when you need one, a clown when you ask for one and a man when the right moment comes.
\par <#/>I love my husb
and. <#/>He is a director of reputable law firm, and an ordinary Kenyan man. <#/>He has genuine friends from all over, but once a week he will visit the local joint for men from Kiambu most religiously. <#/>Tribalism will always be there, he argues. <#/>E
a
ch ethnic group has its own joint in town where no other language is spoken: equal but separate development. <#/>Then why blame white South Africans? <#/>Because development there is not equal, he argues. <#/>And is it equal here? <#/>Well, we're doing wh
at we can, he concludes, and unilaterally closes the unpopular subject.
\par <#/>One day I asked M.M. what he thought of tribalism. <#/>"Oh, those things of long ago? <#/>Do you also believe in them in your tribe? <#/>But me, I believe people are all the same, good and bad, aren't they?"
\par <#/>On those days that we are both home early, my husband and I go to bed at nine-thirty on weekdays and when the children are tired on weekends. <#/>Though we have been married for many years, we still enjoy being in each other'
s arms. <#/>The older the wine, the sweeter... <#/>he loves to say. <#/>He is a good and tender lover.
\par <#/>When M.M. comes to see me at the apartment, he is all set to start the one-hundred-metre race. <#/>Cool it, man, I tell him, you can't run very far a
t that speed. <#/>Yes, my sweet one, anything you say, he answers. <#/>He is a playful, sweet young man, just what a tired business executive needs from time to time. <#/>I determine how often from time to time is going to be and he is always there when I
 need him. <#/>That's what I like about him, obedient, loving, no unnecessary questions. <#/>Needless to say, scenes of jealousy are his speciality. <#/>"Why can't you leave that old man and marry me?" he once asked.
\par <#/>I did not laugh: on the contrary, I 
felt sorry for him. <#/>Poor young man, he has not yet discovered the value of having a home, the solidity, the emotional energy contained in that word, home. <#/>Home, where children play about and fight, oblivious of your presence, but they are at the d
o
or with imploring eyes that moment you pick your car keys. <#/>That's home. <#/>Home, where a husband awaits you or where he will join you and fill the house with his unspoken masculinity just like your <-/feminity> gives a feeling of emotional security t
o
 the household and makes it deserve the name home. <#/>Home, where young relatives on both sides come to spend a week or two without prior arrangements because they know their parents know that there is a mother and a father and they are therefore safe ..
. 
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_> Muthoni, Wanjira \lquote A }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 Cure For Executive Stress\rquote }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057  pp 3-9. In }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 Writer's Forum}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057  Vol 1, 1992}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 </&>}{
\b\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par W2F014K
\par <I> <h> <#/>Let the Factory Close </h>
\par <#/>It was two-fifteen when Arita woke up in response to the door bell. <#/>All was quiet, even the refrigerator motor had groaned itself to exhaustion and was now silent. <#/>The bell rang a second time. <#/>Then she heard the usual complaints.
\par <#/>"Why are you taking so long to open? <#/>Have I disturbed you?"
\par <#/>Eyes closed, lips tightly shut, Arita moved to
wards the front door automatically. <#/>She did not want to speak to anyone. <#/>Aware that her system was allergic to the night air that flowed into it by mouth, however briefly she may have been asleep, Arita did not answer either of the two questions. 
<
#/>She did not expect her husband to insist on an answer as she had time and again explained her allergy to him. <#/>Arita had explained that interrupted sleep was not bad, but that her body took exception to cold air. <#/>Opening the mouth to speak or ya
wn only allowed cold air into her body. <#/>She thus assumed that Kuya had understood.
\par <#/>"Arita," he called as she put the key in the key-hole to open the door, "can't you even say a word in answer? <#/>Is it you opening the door or is it someone else? <#/>Am I safe? <#/>Arita!"
\par <#/>"Uhu," she mumbled without opening her mouth.
\par <#/>Arita opened the door, but no one came in. <#/>She did not wait to see him enter as he normally came in straight after her and headed for the dining room, expecting to find hot 
food already served. <#/>As usual, Arita went to the kitchen, opened the oven and arranged the food on the tray. <#/>All this she did before switching the light on. <#/>She carried the tray to the dining room and set the food on the table. <#/>Then she st
ood by to wait for Kuya to come and eat.
\par <#/>After about twenty minutes, Arita was shocked to hear her husband shouting from outside and seemingly demanding an answer from her.
\par <#/>"Who is that fellow coming out of my house? <#/>Arita, tell me who he is. <#/>I've seen him sneak along the wall and melt into the night. <#/>Who is he?"
\par <#/>These words shocked, disgusted and then amused Arita. <#/>Dressed in a thin night-dress, bulgi
ng with a nine-month pregnancy and still nursing a one-year-old boy, Arita did not see how anyone, let alone a husband, could arrive at such a thought. <#/>Strong drinks might cause hallucinations but this was more than a hallucination. <#/>This was tragi
c
. <#/>Her husband, a calm drinker, only violent when sober and a staunch believer in his mother's philosophy on wife control, must be extremely sick. <#/>If he was drunk, then it was out of character to shout so loudly and to pronounce such words as would
 
shock their eight-year-old daughter. <#/>She was still marvelling at his questions when she saw her husband burst in, switch on the lights and head for her, his finger pointing at her as if he meant to gouge out her eye. <#/>She stared at him as he repeat
e
d the question. <#/>Receiving no answer, he decided to be clearer. <#/>Now he spoke more calmly, "I have always had my suspicions that someone has appointed himself or has been appointed by you to assist me. <#/>This time I was out to catch him, and I hav
e seen him. <#/>I knocked and when there was a delay, I smelt }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <+_article>}{\v\fs24\lang2057  }{\fs24\lang2057 
rat. <#/>I went to the window and listened. <#/>Then I heard. <#/>I went round the house, and you opened the door, I saw it all. <#/>He was there. <#/>Do you deny he was here?"
\par <#/>Arita nodded.
\par <#/>"Was there anyone with you?" <#/>Arita shook her head, denying any such thing. <#/>Then she smiled, amused by Kuya's conviction and anger. <#/>She pointed at the food getting cold fearing it might not be as tasty as she would have liked him
 to find it.
\par <#/>Arita was further shocked when, instead of heading for the table, he struck out and hit her full in the face. <#/>His wide palm and long fingers covered her whole face. <#/>She staggered and let out a cry. <#/>Then she dashed for the kitch
en. <#/>There she found the charcoal stove on which she had left maize and beans cooking in the <ea/>sufuria only one hour earlier. <#/>She put the <ea/>sufuria down and stood by the stove as if warming herself. <#/>Then she felt salt gathering in her mou
th. <#/>She spat on her palm and noticed blood in her saliva. <#/>Her husband had hurt her.
\par <#/>"Arita!" she heard him shout. <#/>"Why do you always approach the door with lights off?"
\par <#/>Arita did not respond, for she had now realized that Kuya was deliberately brewing trouble. <#/>He
\par <#/>was out to make her annoy him. <#/>She continued standing by the fireside and sucking blood from her injured gums and spitting it in a plastic cup.
\par <#/>"Arita!" Kuya shouted again as he burst into the kitchen. <#/>He aske
d the same question about a prowler, and then moved to strike at her again. <#/>Arita lifted the burning charcoal stove and hit Kuya on the chest, pouring all the burning charcoal onto him. <#/>Some coals lodged between his clothes and his skin, while oth
ers feasted on his shiny suit.
\par <#/>"There, have it. <#/>That is the man you saw crawling from your house. <#/>This nonsense has to stop. <#/>Half past two in the night is hardly the time to sort out differences springing from a deep river of jealousy."
\par <#/>
Kuya had thrown off his coat, tie and shirt and was demanding to be told the meaning of such an action. <#/>The coals seemed to have acted fast, for he rushed out and then into the shower room. <#/>Arita knew that the fire had destroyed any drunken stupor
 
that may have been interfering with his power of judgement earlier on. <#/>Sober, he would be dangerous. <#/>She therefore prepared herself for a possible confrontation. <#/>She got her biggest cooking stick in an acceptable position. <#/>Then she looked 
f
or her short <ea/>panga in case it became necessary to scare Kuya into the bedroom to sleep. <#/>Arita considered the possibility of using the steaming pot of maize and beans. <#/>It would mean losing the whole pot, food enough to feed the family and a ca
sual caller for four days.
\par <#/>As the water splashed onto his body, Kuya took the opportunity to try to analyse his situation. <#/>He wondered why his wife had decided to act so unexpectedly. <#/>Had she lost her head? <#/>He remembered her deliberate actio
n as she lifted the stove. <#/>He could see the <ea/>sufuria with its steaming contents and realized then it must have been put down for the purpose already demonstrated.
\par <#/>But, this is not my wife. <#/>The source of her bravery is indiscernible. <#/>Her
 cruelty is incalculable. <#/>She could actually murder.' Kuya kept on talking to himself as the cold shower went down his burning body. <#/>He dared not touch the burning skin in case it came off in his hands. <#/>Then he remembered that ice was what he 
needed. <#/>How was he to get it without encountering his wife-turned-lioness?
\par <#/>The idea of ice came to his mind when he was trying to recollect a similar encounter between his skin and heat. <#/>It had been many years ago as a teenager minding his young
er sisters and at the same time expected to take gruel to the farm where his parents and older brother were working.
\par <#/>On that fateful morning, he had put the hot pot on his head, atop a wide thick ring of banana fibres. <#/>Then he had walked out of the
 house without bending. <#/>The eaves had obstructed him and the pot had emptied its contents onto his back. <#/>He had taken off his shorts and fallen on the grass - rolling in the soothing morning dew. <#/>Then he had looked for <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 
liselenge}{\fs24\lang2057  (the wet ashes left after traditional salt with bicarbonate-of-soda properties had been removed) and sponged the still-burning parts of his back and buttocks with it.
\par <#/>The feel of <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 liselenge}{\fs24\lang2057  had been wonderful. <#/>He wondered whether his wife used this traditional salt to cook her <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 omurele}{\fs24\lang2057  or chicken. <#/>If so, he would prefer <ea/>}{
\i\fs24\lang2057 liselenge}{\fs24\lang2057  to anything else.
\par <#/>"My dear, do you use <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 omuselekha}{\fs24\lang2057 ?" <#/>There was no answer. <#/>Maybe she was still frightened. <#/>He went on. <#/>"If you do, may I have a little <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 liselenge}{\fs24\lang2057 
 to cool my skin? <#/>You know you've killed me."
\par <#/>There was no response. <#/>Then, after about two minutes, Arita opened the refrigerator and got out all the cold water and the ice cubes the children so loved to make. <#/>She too
k these to the door of the shower room. <#/>She was surprised to find the door firmly locked. <#/>She almost laughed, but then realized that Kuya would feel even more pain. <#/>She knocked cautiously and said, "Open the door and take this ice and ice- col
d water. <#/>Both are from the fridge and should do you a lot of good. <#/>They are even more soothing than your <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 liselenge}{\fs24\lang2057 . <#/>I've got some, but it's not as cold as the water and ice cubes in this basin."
\par <#/>"You are a witch. <#/>Let me have the <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 liselenge}{\fs24\lang2057 
 as well. <#/>Just have your laugh now. <#/>Who knows who'll laugh last?" <#/>With these words Kuya opened the door carefully and then pulled in the now ice-cold basin. <#/>He used this carefully on his still-burning body, muttering to himself a
ll the time. <#/>Meanwhile, Arita was busy pouring cold water into the bowl of <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 liselenge. <#/>}{\fs24\lang2057 
She then placed it in the refrigerator and turned the regulator full on. <#/>She felt that the burning man needed her help.
\par <#/>As she waited for the <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 liselenge}{\fs24\lang2057 
 to cool, she took stock of her married life. <#/>Before her was a canvas on which was painted the first beating she had received from her dear husband. <#/>It had come two days after the two had learned that they were going to have their first baby
. <#/>It had only been three months after the wedding. <#/>The beating had been systematic and thorough. <#/>Kuya had repeatedly said, "If you have ever been intimate with any other man, I want you to confess now. <#/>Then I'll be sure that you have forgo
tten all and that I'm the only person in your life, in your mind; the only man who matters to you."
\par <#/>Arita remembered asking back, "Why are you hurting me? <#/>Is the coming baby a mistake? <#/>Please, tell me."
\par <#/>But Kuya had behaved like her question had no answer or was not even heard.
\par <#/>"A baby is a human being. <#/>It may be a son. <#/>Whose son shall I say he is if he's born into a house where the woman has divided loyalty between the alleged father and a horde of other men? <#/>How do you expec
t me to hold such a baby? <#/>Write their names here and renounce each one in turn."
\par <#/>"Who? <#/>Whose names?"
\par <#/>"Your previous 'husbands'. <#/>You weren't a virgin when we got married. <#/>Someone deflowered you. <#/>Who was it?" <#/>Kuya behaved as if the perpetrator of the crime was right before him, challenging his right over the coming baby.
\par <#/>"I didn't even know that I had been deflowered," she moaned.
\par <#/>"Deflowered by whom? <#/>I want the name. <#/>Shame! <#/>Now, come on, tell me his name," he roared, then coaxed, then pleaded.
\par <#/>"No one," the young woman moaned.
\par <#/>"No one? <#/>I don't believe you at all. <#/>I don't believe a word of what you say. <#/>I don't even believe you are pregnant. <#/>I'm dealing with an incorrigible liar."
\par <#/>Each one of these statements had been accompanied with a slap and a kick. <#/>Arita thought she would die. <#/>She wished she would die. <#/>It had been at night. <#/>Escape had been impossible as all the doors had been locked and the keys hidden. <#/
>The windows had strong burglar-proof wires. <#/>There was no escape.
\par <#/>"Arita, dear," she had heard him say. <#/>"Even if you are an incorrigible liar, I have married you." <#/>Then he pulled at both her ears until they hurt and she moaned yet again. <#/>"You're mine and I'll teach you to lie to me."
\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>With these words and this final painful gesture, the beating had come to an end. <#/>Kuya had then shown great enjoyment of every item of the meal served that evening. <#/>Arita remembered that evenin
g well, and she never forgave the beating itself nor the inquisition and the cynicism written all over his face during the incident. <#/>Yet, their intimacy that evening was special. <#/>Like one possessed by Eros himself, Kuya had given his young wife th
e tenderest night ever known in their marriage. <#/>He had even shown interest in her preparedness to receive him. <#/>For the first time in their marriage, Kuya had praised her responsiveness and even said "I love you".
\par <#/>Arita was shocked at this change
. <#/>Yet lost in the loving embraces of her husband, the urgency of his breathing and the eyes that promised to give more, to give as much and as many times over as she wanted and as she could withstand, she could not retain the shock for long. <#/>She r
elaxed and loved. <#/>She was loved. <#/>There was no ache anywhere. <#/>Aches were replaced with thrills that sparked and travelled throughout the body.
\par <#/>By morning Arita appeared to have forgotten the beating. <#/>What was more}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 , }{\v\fs24\lang2057 not even Kuya's brother
 who lived with the young couple and slept in a room separated from theirs by only a wall, had come out to stop the brutal display. <#/>No one, not even this brother-in-law of Arita's who seemed so fond of her, asked her or Kuya a single question related 
to the incident.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \v\lang2057 
<#/>The pain, shame and bitterness had struck after five days, when Kuya's sister had come in with pounded roots and herbs meant for her and the coming baby. <#/>Then Arita learnt that the beating had announced good news to all, the news th
at Kuya was going to be a father. <#/>The news had got to his mother, who had quickly prepared the medicines for her daughter-in-law to mix with her bath-water. <#/>She was also to use some of the medicines to massage herself. <#/>It was explained to her 
that Kuya had burnt all her clothes the following day in order to erase any memory in her of another man in her life.
\par \pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>As Arita recounted this incident to herself, four others came to her mind. <#/>Their timing was identical. <#/>The last month of her co
nfinement had always been marked with a beating. <#/>It had become a ritual, a strange ritual. <#/>She wondered how anyone in his right mind could risk a miscarriage because of a ritual. <#/>Arita could not understand how an educated man could carry on wi
t
h such an inhuman practice. <#/>It was his tiresome elder sister, the ever-smiling Sake, who had told Arita that a man was expected to salute his coming baby in style. <#/>It was not hatred; it was an integral part of the love through which they had got t
he baby. <#/>The effective slap was a re-enactment of the effective thrust.
\par <#/>"Did you find the <ea/>}{\i\v\fs24\lang2057 liselenge?" }{\v\fs24\lang2057 Kuya asked, sounding subdued and pathetic.
\par <#/>Arita was shaken out of her reminiscences.
\par <#/>"Yes, I did. <#/>Here it is." <#/>Then she put i
t near the door and left. <#/>It was a quarter past three. <#/>The first cock had crowed, and Arita felt that in her condition she was better off in bed than hanging around someone who was burning in sin and shame.
\par <#/>As she went to bed, Arita was filled 
with doubts. <#/>She did not know whether to go to their bed or join the children in their already-crowded room. <#/>Each one of her four children wet the bed, so their room produced a smell that she did not enjoy, especially in her current state. <#/>She
 had done everything possible to limit the habit, but no effort she put in had so far been rewarded. <#/>She made it her habit to soak their bedding in hot water and soap every morning so that the servant could wash them in time to dry for the evening.

\par <#/>Four o'clock came when she was still debating. <#/>There was total silence in the house. <#/>Then she heard Kuya call her.
\par <#/>"Daughter of the Great Ones, come." <#/>She could not believe it. <#/>Was the lion tamed? <#/>Or was it sounding tame in order to
 lure the rabbit and then pounce on it? <#/>She dared not take the calm call for granted. <#/>The last time she had received a beating in a similar condition, she had almost lost her baby, a fully-developed girl with only two weeks to go. <#/>Friends had 
b
lamed her for allowing herself to be handled violently while in that stage or at any other stage. <#/>Her mother-in-law had blamed her for not knowing her husband's moods after so many years and therefore annoying him to the extent that he had been forced
 to consider it fit to teach her a lesson when she was so advanced in pregnancy. <#/>It was the wife's bounden duty to avert blows, to avoid being beaten.
\par <#/>"Arita," she heard him call again. <#/>"Ah! Daughter of Okoto, I did not know I had married a lion
ess. <#/>You burn me and then you refuse to come and fan my back. <#/>Don't I massage your skin when I cause swellings on it? <#/>Don't be afraid, I won't hurt you. <#/>I can't afford to sweat, you see. <#/>Just come. <#/>I badly need to be fanned."

\par <#/>"I'll come in, my lord. <#/>Yet I'm afraid. <#/>I might lose my baby."
\par <#/>"If you remain sitting out there any longer, you're more likely to lose it than if you came in and fanned its father back to cheerfulness."
\par <#/>"Will you hurt me?"
\par <#/>"No. <#/>Trust me. <#/>I'll not raise a finger against you."
\par <#/>That said, Kuya kept quiet and seemed to wait. <#/>Arita looked at her watch and noticed that it was ten minutes past four. <#/>In two more hours the sun would be up. <#/>The children would be awake and the
 eldest two would have to be prepared for school while the third would be walked to the nursery school. <#/>She would bathe the youngest child and help the servant to feed it. <#/>There would be nothing to show for the night's incident. <#/>She would then
 take Kuya's brushed shoes to him after scolding the servant for not shining them to satisfaction. <#/>At work, she would concentrate on the children in her class and avoid being asked about home, the family and the night.
\par <#/>On his part, Kuya would put on
 a shirt, tie and coat. <#/>But could he? <#/>It was important to assure herself of this before sunrise. <#/>It was necessary to know how much of the skin had burnt and would therefore be oozing with water by seven-thirty.
\par <#/>She switched on the kitchen lights and cleaned up the spilt charcoal, ashes and all, putting away the food as it had already cooked by the time of the fracas.
\par <#/>At five o'clock she went to bed. <#/>Kuya was already asleep. <#/>She crawled into the blankets and lay at the far edge of
 the bed, away from her husband. <#/>Surprisingly, she fell asleep immediately and did not wake up until Kuya called, "Old one, let this be our last child. <#/>Five is a good number."
\par <#/>"That is all right," she answered. <#/>It was seven fifteen. <#/>He 
had woken up early and had not roughed her up for over-sleeping. <#/>She was surprised, then confused. <#/>She did not know which parts of his body were affected by the hot coals. <#/>Maybe he had noticed some damage in the factory area, as he referred to
 it in jest. <#/>Maybe not, maybe he had considered permanent abstinence as a result of her audacity.
\par <#/>"Is it all right with you, Daughter of the Great Ones?" he asked again.
\par <#/>"It is. <#/>But will mother like it?"
\par <#/>"Mother will have to like it. <#/
>She has made enough decisions for us in this family. <#/>It's more than eight years, you know. <#/>I bear the entire responsibility of sinning, ritualising, feeding and bringing up the children. <#/>You look exhausted. <#/>I can see your brain and your e
ntire body are giving in. <#/>These burns testify to it. <#/>Do I need a magician to tell me that?"
\par <#/>"I do not feel tired, but if you are convinced that we should concentrate our energy on the four children we have and the coming one, then I have no objection."
\par <#/>Still she could not quite trust him. <#/>He had talked of ten children when they first started. <#/>The subject had not been brought up again. <#/>It was only in passing and jest that the tiresome Sake had on several occasions encouraged her to
 be brave so that by the time she got to the tenth child she would still have sufficient energy to be delivered. <#/>"The last birth could be twins or triplets," Sake had teased. <#/>Kuya's words this morning, therefore, puzzled her. <#/>It was a forebodi
ng. <#/>It portended disinterest, neglect and suffering. <#/>Cautiously, she ventured to know how he planned to ensure no pregnancy <-/>occured.
\par <#/>"How shall we put an end to the womb's activity?"
\par <#/>"You'll see," Kuya replied.
\par <#/>As if summoned to come forth and be seen, the baby brought signs of arrival just as Arita was leaving the bed. <#/>Kuya noticed her winces and understood. <#/>He did not talk of the burns. <#/>He simply reached out for the telephone and rang the offic
e to excuse himself on account of his wife's condition and his obligation to attend to her.
\par <#/>The two did not have long to wait. <#/>As soon as Kuya noticed the speed of the labour, he left the room and the house. <#/>Arita was delivered of a baby within 
minutes of his leaving. <#/>The baby gave a powerful wail. <#/>Almost simultaneously, Arita heard her husband call,
\par <#/>"Arita!"
\par <#/>"Yes, I'm here," she answered.
\par <#/>"Let that be your last baby."
\par <#/>"Yes, it will be," she replied.
\par <#/>He walked away. <#/>The servant had already called in a neighbour who arrived at that moment and busied herself with the job at hand. <#/>As she delivered the placenta, Arita explained to her, "My last child, Sophia."
\par <#/>"How? <#/>Come on, let's clean her up first."
\par <#/>"She is. <#/>Kuya has closed the factory. <#/>The womb is dry."
\par <#/>Arita fell asleep immediately. <#/>Sophia looked at her innocent face and then at her uncovered shoulders. <#/>She nodded and said, "Yes, a woman must both rest and give herself time to look
 after the family. <#/>Life can be exhausting." <#/>She patted the sleeping woman on the back and left. }{\fs24\lang2057 </X>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Mwanzi, Helen 'Let the Factory Close' 
\par From W. Kabira/M. Karega/E. Nzioki (eds) }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 Our Secret Lives }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 (1990), Phoenix Publishers,pp 109-114 (119) </&>
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \lang2057 {W2F015K
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <I> <h> <#/>Decision of the Heart </h>
\par <#/>"Is it available?" he asked me immediately he entered my house and I greeted him and offered him a seat.
\par <#/>"What is it that you want?" I in turn asked him.
\par <#/>"Don't be funny," he retorted. <#/>"You know what I mean."
\par <#/>"No, I don't," I replied in a well controlled voice.
\par <#/>"The thing you make," he answered with a laugh.
\par <#/>"That stuff which draws people like me to this house," the man replied as he surveyed my mud and grass built house, whic
h was tidy and well swept, with his eyes. <#/>I had placed three tattered chairs against each of the three walls. <#/>I occupied part of the fourth wall facing the west with my low work-stool. <#/>The man sat directly opposite me on one of the worn out ch
airs.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \v\lang2057 {\v0 <#/>"Don't be ridiculous," I told the man teasingly. <#/>"I make so many things in this house, babies included. <#/>What exactly or which stuff do you mean? <#/>Be specific, please."
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <#/>"You're well aware of the stuff I mean," the man replied. <#/>"The particular thing which makes us come to pay you furtive visits," he repeated with a forced smile.
\par <#/>"Why don't you come out and name the }{\i\fs24\lang2057 it}{\fs24\lang2057 ? I challenged him.
\par <#/>"I want some drink - <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 chang'aa}{\fs24\lang2057  for power," the fellow sputtered, once again, giving me one of those false smiles.
\par <#/>"Oh, why didn't you say so from the beginning instead of wasting my time?" I replied and made as if to get up. <#/>The evasive answers I'd been giving him were beginning to vex him.
\par <#/>"A bottle will do, please," he said.
\par <#/>"I see, but who are you? <#/>I don't think I've seen you around here before," I told him as an afterthought. <#/>I had over the years, learnt to be suspicious of all my customers and everybody else unless I knew them well. <#/>You see, selling <ea/>}{
\i\fs24\lang2057 chang'aa}{\fs24\lang2057  was a risky business.
\par <#/>"Are you always suspicious of your customers?" the man asked me with a twinkle in his eyes.
\par <#/>"No, but it's often good to know one's visitors," I replied.
\par <#/>"I see," remarked the man.
\par <#/>"I still insist: Who are you?"
\par <#/>"Get me some <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 chang'aa}{\fs24\lang2057  first. <#/>I'm thirsty," the man said, "and then I'll tell you who I am."
\par <#/>I was beginning to feel uncomfortable. <#/>The man had betrayed himself. <#/>He spoke my language very well, but with a definite accent which made him an alien as far as I was concerned. <#/>This meant just one thing: he was an officer of the law.

\par <#/>"Wait a minute, please," I told the man as I went out of the room. <#/>"Toto, come here," <#/>I called one of my children who was playing under a nea
rby tree. <#/>He came running. <#/>I spoke to him in a whisper and gave him a clear and precise message to take to his father, who was then busy entertaining our regular customers. <#/>He was behind our home at an open space in the centre of a eucalyptus 
bush. <#/>The place was known as <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 bunge}{\fs24\lang2057  parliament. <#/>The child left in a hurry and ran heading towards <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 bunge}{\fs24\lang2057 
. <#/>I had asked him to come back immediately after giving his father my message.
\par <#/>"What's going on?" the man enquired in a raised voice when I returned back }{\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>idiom }{\fs24\lang2057 to the house. <#/>"Are you going to sell me some <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 chang'aa}{\fs24\lang2057  or not?"
\par <#/>"Since I don't make it any more," I explained in earnest, "I've sent a child to get you some from a neighbour who is still in that business." <#/>Then I got busy working around my house. <#/>I got out some green vegetables, put them in <ea/>}{
\i\fs24\lang2057 oteo}{\fs24\lang2057 : a flat basket, and began to prepare them for the family supper that evening.
\par <#/>I removed hard dry pieces, picked out any bits of grass, sticks and grit. <#/>The man watched me intently. <#/>Somehow I grew more uncomfortable and nervous. <#/>There was an undef
ined undercurrent of tension mounting between us which disturbed me somewhat. <#/>The mutual co-operation and conspiratorial atmosphere that normally prevails between the <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 chang'aa}{\fs24\lang2057 
 brewers and their customers, <-_was><+-were> lacking here!
\par <#/>While I 
waited for Toto to return, my mind went back to another time when I experienced the same feeling. <#/>This was when I used to stay with my husband in Nairobi at Mathare Valley. <#/>Time flies so fast! I mused as I concentrated on preparing the vegetables.
 <#/>The incident was still fresh in my mind as if it was just the other day that I packed my things, and moved into our home here in the rural area. <#/>Yet three or four years had gone by since then!
\par <#/>I remembered how on one particular day I woke up ea
rly in the morning, intending to carry on with my daily chores. <#/>But the moment I opened my door to go out and start on the rounds, I was confronted by a huge man who stood blocking my way absolutely. <#/>My mind worked fast. <#/>I rushed back into the
 room, and banged the door in the fellow's face. <#/>Henceforth, I was not to know peace. <#/>When I thought I had escaped from the man, he began to rattle the door hard, shaking the whole house, sending a shower of debris on us.
\par <#/>"Open quickly: the poli
ce are here," he called with authority. <#/>Then more than one voice, in fact, lots of murmurs. <#/>I went cold with fright, while my body felt hot and lifeless. <#/>I had fallen a victim to the authority. <#/>I felt so guilty. <#/>Oh, I could die of remo
rse. <#/>My father's stern face and my mother's large, dark, innocent, but accusing, eyes came to my mind. <#/>I recalled how strictly they had brought us up. <#/>I never saw liquor of any nature being brewed in my parents' home when I was growing up.

\par <#/>M
y parents were staunch Christians, strict moralists and disciplinarians. <#/>They never allowed us to come in contact with anything that they deemed ungodly, sinful, or unclean. <#/>And there was much that fitted in this category. <#/>Hot drinks were amon
gst these! <#/>Now, I worried about what they'd say on learning that I'd been caught brewing <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 chang'aa}{\fs24\lang2057 !
\par <#/>"Open the door, Woman, or else I'll break this feeble shutter," the man insisted. <#/>I felt even more helpless, cornered and hemmed all round, w
ith no means of escape. <#/>The windows in my Mathare slum house were so narrow that I couldn't pass through them.
\par <#/>Another thought entered my mind: supposing the man calling outside was not a policeman, but a rogue, who upon opening the  door might bou
nce on me, maybe rape, kill or rob me? <#/>I wished I had a hole in the floor somewhere I could hide with my children and the ten jerry-cans of <ea/>chang'aa, all full to capacity with the stuff. <#/>The number was too great to be shoved in a corner, or u
nder a bed in my small congested room. <#/>I muttered to myself, "I can't evade this one." <#/>So I had to accept the fact as it was: I had been caught red-handed with ten jerry cans of the illicit brew.
\par <#/>I didn't wish to wake up my little children. <#/>
I therefore, quietly changed my dress. <#/>I put on a clean presentable one before I stepped forward to open the door for the fellow who was by then consumed with rage. <#/>But I wasn't prepared for what I encountered this time when I opened the door. <#/
>There, behold, was a large multitude of the Mathare <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 chang'aa}{\fs24\lang2057 
 brewers. <#/>The police had taken a midnight swoop in and around Mathare, and had netted a host of us illicit brewers! <#/>"Why have you kept me waiting for so long?" <#/>The hefty fellow glared at me, pushing his truncheon in my hips.
\par <#/>"Huu," I grunted as the club sunk into my flesh. <#/>"I'm sorry, Officer," I replied in all humility. <#/>"I've this baby here and I was still breast-feeding him. <#/>I realise you've come for me, and I don't wish to take him along with me."
\par <#/>"Lies," he retorted and carried on forcefully.
\par <#/>"What are you hiding, in there?" he said stepping into the small room, filling it absolutely with his voluminous body. <#/>"Come on, tell me," he said again, flickering his huge spotlight angrily around the room.
\par <#/>"Nothing. <#/>I'm not hiding anything," I answered my heart sinking within me. <#/>He kept on pulling and pushing at my shabby furnishings.
\par <#/>"Where's your husband?" the man enquired, looking under the bed, still flickering his powerful spotlight. <#/>"Were you still hiding him under the bed?"
\par <#/>"He isn't here," I replied.
\par <#/>"So you're one of them: whores with a flock of children and no husbands. <#/>No wonder you've turned this small room into a bre
wery." He bellowed accusingly. <#/>His eyes were all over the room whilst throwing dirty looks at me. <#/>I said nothing. <#/>Let him think the worst of me. <#/>After all, was I any better than my next door neighbour who was a whore? <#/>She also brewed <
ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 chang'aa}{\fs24\lang2057 
 and sold her body to raise money to educate and support her six children. <#/>Our objectives were similar. <#/>I sold <ea/>chang'aa at night and vegetables during the day, all illegally. <#/>I had no licence to hawk or sell anything within the 
Nairobi City Council. <#/>My friend sold <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 chang'aa}{\fs24\lang2057 
 and her body at night and during the day as well. <#/>We both got involved in forbidden ventures, all for survival. <#/>I suspected that some time one or two of my children went into the city to beg. <
#/>It hurt me to the core, but there was nothing I could do about it.
\par <#/>"What are these?" he asked at last, uncovering the ten jerry cans of <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 chang'aa}{\fs24\lang2057 , removing the old, torn, heavy settee under which I had hidden them. <#/>"Get up quickly." <#/>He o
rdered three of my children to get up from that torn settee on which they were sleeping.
\par <#/>"Woman, what are these?" he asked again. <#/>I was tongue-tied. <#/>I had no heart and no wish to reply.
\par <#/>"Mzito," he called one of his colleagues who was hovering on the threshold. <#/>"Come and carry these." <#/>By then nine of my children who were living with me were all awake, and everyone of them was scared of the policeman.
\par <#/>"Don't worry, I'll come back to you," I told them, taking Toto, my second younge
st son, into my right arm. <#/>He was yelling and crying, holding tightly onto my dress. <#/>"Dena, here, hold the child. <#/>Buy bread and milk in the morning and make nice tea for everybody, but give the big nice bread crusts to Toto here," I spoke to m
y sixteen year old daughter, handing her a twenty shilling note and Toto.
\par <#/>"Let's go," the policeman said as he roughly pulled me away from where I was giving Dena more instructions on what to do while I'd be away. <#/>"Don't g
o to school today. <#/>Stay at home and look after your sisters and brothers," I called to Dena as the policeman impatiently pushed me out of the door.
\par <#/>All my children came out to see me off. <#/>I was like a person going on a journey by an unknown rou
te. <#/>"After breakfast, go and tell your uncle and father too that I've been arrested," I shouted even louder at Dena as I was shepherded into the huge lorry whose engine was running, sending thick fumes all around the dark alleys of the slum estate.

\par <#/
>There were three lorry loads of us! <#/>We were all taken to the nearest Police Station that same night where we were dumped into a crowded room. <#/>I took Sam, my six-month-old baby son along with me. <#/>I considered him my security. <#/>They might sy
m
pathise with me because of him. <#/>And they did. <#/>I was removed from that tightly packed, crowded room to a less crowded one. <#/>By 8.00 a.m. <#/>the following morning, we were all escorted to the court. <#/>When my turn for trial came, the judge was
 sympathetic but he teased me in a way which somehow aroused my anger. <#/>I still remember his voice as he asked me, "Why do you brew <ea/>}{\i\fs24\lang2057 chang'aa}{\fs24\lang2057 ?" <X_>"}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
To raise money for school fees for my children, and for their general support as well," my reply came promptly}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Odaga, Asenath B 'Decision of The Heart' 
\par From }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 The Mother of Girls and Other Stories}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057  (1990) Kenya Women Literature Group, Lake Publishers, Kisumu, 31-37}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 </&>}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \lang2057 {W2F016K
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <I> <h> <#/>Healing from sex abuse </h>
\par <#/>On this bright morning, I was through with one week of my holidays. <#/>I had decided to spend them upcountry and I was enjoying myself hugely. <#/>My spirits were very high as I bounced off with the jerry-can to go and fetch water for my grandmother.

\par <#/>Then came one of our <ea/>shamba-boys, Oscar. <#/>"Dido, Grandmother said that you should get some maize from the <ea/>shamba for her. <#/>But since I'm going for a walk now, I would rather you came for it at halfpast five in the evening."
\par <#/>As he said this, he looked at me wit
h inquisitive eyes. <#/>I thought that he was wondering if I could carry the jerry-can full of water home since he had even offered to help me. <#/>But feeling strong enough, I turned down his offer since the water-tap was only about two hundred metres aw
a
y. <#/>I thought for a while and then told him that I would go down to the <ea/>shamba for the maize if only he would let me carry it back home on his bicycle. <#/>This was because the <ea/>shamba was one hour's walk from home and I otherwise would get ba
ck home both tired and late. <#/>He agreed and went his own way.
\par <#/>I carried the water to my grandmother's place and stayed with her the whole day. <#/>Inside me I felt a sense of foreboding which I tried as hard as possible to brush aside - without any success.
\par <#/>In the evening, I set off with a small nylon sack in which I would carry the maize. <#/>I walked fast enough and arrived at the <ea/>shamba at six o'clock. <#/>I took the maize and asked for the bicycle, only to discover that Oscar had lent it 
out to a friend of his, who was to bring it back at half-past six. <#/>I waited patiently enough and when the bicycle was brought back, I hurriedly tied the sack onto it and rode off as fast as possible.
\par <#/>The path through which I was passing was narrow 
and bushy. <#/>Suddenly, as I was taking a certain corner near our homestead, I was hit with a stone on my head! <#/>I lost control and ended up landing in the bushes. <#/>As I slowly opened my eyes, I noticed two men standing beside me with glittering pe
n
-knives. <#/>I didn't really get the hint until one of them pulled me to my feet and began dragging me deeper into the bushes. <#/>He looked like Oscar, but since the darkness had fallen, I couldn't recognize him. <#/>He breathed heavily as his grip tight
ened around my wrist.
\par <#/>Out of the blue, I found myself hitting the hard ground that had recently been cleared. <#/>I didn't know what he was up to until he started unzipping his trousers. <#/>I knew then that that was the end of me, and started screaming
 as I struggled against this rogue, who was now mounting me. <#/>I don't know where the other fellow went to, but there was no one around to come to my rescue. <#/>I was overpowered and all I could do was to spit into his face.
\par <#/>I was very exhausted by 
the time he shifted his heavy mass of flesh from mine. <#/>He looked pleased, very satisfied with himself, while I could wail no more. <#/>I felt faint. <#/>There were sharp pains in my lower abdomen. <#/>My virginity was now gone! <#/>I lay in the same s
pot until I regained enough strength to crawl back to the path. <#/>My dress had a few blood stains that made me uneasy.
\par <#/>Surprising enough, the bicycle wasn't there! <#/>What was I going to tell my grandmother about her maize? <#/>Life had blown up for me in one single hour!! <#/>I walked slowly home, shedding my few remaining tears, as the pain below increased.
\par <#/>It was near the entrance of the homestead that I tripped over something hard - the bicycle lying across the path. <#/>I got a very deep cut 
that bled for some time. <#/>I eventually got up and pushed the bicycle along slowly until I arrived at my grandmother's hut. <#/>She had been scared out of her wits by my absence. <#/>She did not know what to do next. <#/>She questioned me so as to know 
w
hat had gone wrong but all I told her was that I had had an accident at a sharp corner near the <ea/>shamba and that that was why I had come pushing the bike. <#/>I didn't have enough courage to face her with the whole truth. <#/>She nursed me and ordered
 me to go to bed straightaway. <#/>What a relief!
\par <#/>I awoke the following morning with less abdominal pain but more worries. <#/>My leg was getting worse. <#/>How would I face my parents who were to arrive the following day? <#/>What if I was pregnant? <#
/>What if my uterus had been destroyed? <#/>What if my father decided to send me away from school? <#/>He was a very temperamental man who was also difficult to convince. <#/>All these questions rushed through my mind as I was having breakfast with my gra
n
dmother. <#/>I had been unaware of the questioning glances that she had been giving me all this time, until she asked me twice, and I replied that I was trying to remember what might have cut me that deep. <#/>Although her looks told me that she was not s
atisfied, she did not pester me again.
\par <#/>I went through the day with much pain, as vivid visions of what had taken place the previous evening flashed again and again into my mind. <#/>I did no work since my grandmother did not allow me to. <#/>The night came and went.
\par <#/>I was up early the next day as I wanted to see my parents arrive. <#/>They were both shocked when they saw the cut and asked for an explanation at once. <#/>I shivered as I gave them the very same story I had told my grandmother. <#/>My p
arents had been very strict with me, especially since I was their first-born. <#/>They wanted me to be contained and serious all the time. <#/>They even went to the extent of blaming me for some things that I wasn't responsible for. <#/>For this reason I 
feared them and hence was not ready to face them with this tragedy that had befallen me. <#/>I felt I had little say in my life as long as I still sheltered under their roof.
\par <#/>I received a good scolding and was then taken to hospital where I got four stitches. <#/>This was another bad experience, which I bore bravely.
\par <#/>When I came back home, I learnt from one of my cousins that Oscar had run away without saying why. <#/>This did not really surprise me since I had expected something of the sort to happe
n. <#/>She asked me if I had any clue as to his whereabouts but I shook my head and walked away. <#/>I was relieved at this point and believed that that was the end of the sad story.
\par <#/>While I rested on my bed, I went over the incident again. <#/>I remem
bered the man's outfit. <#/>It must have been Oscar! <#/>The outfit was identical and so was the cap that he had worn. <#/>So the other man must have been the friend to whom he had lent his bike. <#/>They had plotted together to rape me! <#/>I burnt insid
e
 with fury. <#/>Life, seemed worthless to me now. <#/>Throughout the rest of the holidays I was always sad and I lost a lot of weight. <#/>But having very busy parents, neither of them took much notice. <#/>Ten days later I had the stitches removed and I 
felt OK. <#/>Slowly I began trying to push the incident away since the criminal had taken refuge in an unknown place.
\par <#/>After my holidays, I went back to school as a changed person. <#/>I always wanted to be alone while I thought things over and over agai
n. <#/>My best friend Sarah noticed this and tried to cleverly question me. <#/>She became even more worried when she found out that I acted more reticent when I was with her. <#/>So she let me be. <#/>I wanted to shut everybody out of my life. <#/>The si
g
ht of a crowd made me tremble for fear that they had found out what had happened to me during the holiday. <#/>I then decided that it would have been best if I hid myself in my schoolbooks though the term was still young. <#/>This made me more frustrated 
and I soon developed very severe headaches.
\par <#/>Then I discovered that my private parts were burning. <#/>We had previously been taught about sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and their symptoms. <#/>I knew what had happened. <#/>I cried myself sick and 
stopped eating. <#/>The matron, who was a very nice woman, came to know of my problem. <#/>She asked me about the whole situation and after a lot of persuasion, I at last told her the truth. <#/>The expression on her face showed how shocked she was but sh
e
 showed me a lot of sympathy. <#/>Finally, she told me that it would be best if I told my mother the whole story. <#/>She would take me to a doctor. <#/>I found this unbearable, though I promised her that I would and the matron promised me that she would 
be by my side if ever I needed her help.
\par <#/>But I still didn't have enough guts to tell my mother the whole truth. <#/>The only thought that lingered in my mind was yet another lie. <#/>I decided to write to her and pretend that I did not know what was wro
ng, but that I had a certain problem with my private parts.
\par <#/>I waited for the reply eagerly as a week elapsed, two... <#/>three, and finally a whole month without a reply! <#/>The following Sunday, I sent a friend home to find out from my mother if she 
had received my letter. <#/>Anger burnt inside me when the answer through my friend was positive. <#/>Had she read the letter thoroughly? <#/>Was she too shocked to come and visit me? <#/>Or was she intentionally ignoring me due to her business? <#/>To he
ll with her! <#/>To hell with life! <#/>I burnt deep down.
\par <#/>When we closed school for another holiday, I decided that I would spend the holidays 
in Nairobi. <#/>Though my performance in class had not been that impressive, I was happy to see my father who came to the bus station to meet me. <#/>He looked upset though he acted calm until we reached home.
\par <#/>The house was unusually quiet as the house
keeper took my luggage into my bedroom. <#/>My mother did not come out to meet me but since she had read my letter, I thought she was trying to show disapproval by being absent. <#/>I was afraid to seek her out but meanwhile I had to occupy myself. <#/>I 
c
hanged into my home- clothes and went into the kitchen to help in the preparation of supper. <#/>As usual! <#/>I finally set the table for five since the housekeeper ate in the kitchen with my baby sister. <#/>I sat down and waited for the rest of the fam
ily.
\par <#/>To my surprise, we were only four at the table and when I asked my father where mother was, all he could say was that she was gone. <#/>"Why?" I asked him in a strange voice. <#/>His reply was that we couldn't talk then since he had some business m
atter to attend to. <#/>I went to the bedroom and cried myself to sleep.
\par <#/>The next morning I felt too weak to get up. <#/>I had my breakfast in bed. <#/>The housekeeper came in later and informed me that my parents had fought a week before, and my mothe
r had taken refuge in her motherland Uganda. <#/>They had mentioned my name in their argument and sounded very bitter about it.
\par <#/>"Did mother go alone?" I asked.
\par <#/>"No! <#/>She of course took your baby sister."
\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>I was now so tired of everything that I could not even think or cry.
\par <#/>Day in, day out I waited for my mother to return, but all in vain. <#/>Though I did not miss her much, I wished that she was there to control my father. <#/>He was slowly turning into a drunkard and the earliest time
 he would arrive home was at midnight.
\par <#/>That Sunday he beat up our housekeeper, who in turn ran away to save her life. <#/>I was exhausted due to all the housework I did alone. <#/>I fainted one night in the kitchen after cleaning up the dinner dishes. 
<#/>Finally, I could stand it no longer. <#/>The next Saturday I told him what had happened three months earlier - and the consequences I was suffering. <#/>He took it surprisingly well once I had explained the circumstances. <#/>Then he took me to the do
ctor, who prescribed the right medicine after examining me and asking why I had not come to him months earlier. <#/>My discharge stopped, and the abdominal pains were now gone.
\par <#/>Two weeks before we opened school, I decided to go to church and ask for God
's guidance. <#/>I was absent-minded until the preacher mentioned something to do with forgiving others before you are forgiven by God. <#/>He went on preaching that God forgave us so many times because He loved us, yet we found it so hard to forgive othe
rs for their sins. <#/>Then I thought of Oscar. <#/>I had never forgiven him. <#/>He realized that he was leading a guilty life, and had fled. <#/>I was so sad that I cried while the sermon continued.
\par <#/>I finally stood up after the preacher asked if there was anyone who wanted to be saved. <#/>After saying a short prayer, I felt much better as the congregation cheered me.
\par <#/>I reached home as a changed person and found my father seated in deep thought, alone in the sitting room. <#/>He was shocked to see 
me happy after such a long period of gloom. <#/>I told him that I had got saved and that I had no grudge against anyone. <#/>I concluded my testimony by saying that God loved him. <#/>He was taken aback, but slowly he began understanding what I was explai
ning.
\par <#/>We started having prayer-times every morning, and as days went by, he began acting more decently.
\par <#/>The Sunday before I returned to school, my father went to church and got saved. <#/>Though it was hard for him, he managed to confess his sins in front of the congregation, and to forgive my mother for leaving him.
\par <#/>He is now a changed man. <#/>We live a happy and loving life, together with my mother, who came back two weeks later. <#/>It has been five years since then and we have all grown in the love of God.
\par <#/>God is love!}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>From }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 Healing From Sex Abuse}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057  by Sally Wangwe In W. Kabira/M. Karega/E. Nzioki (eds) }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 Our Secret Lives}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 (1990), Phoenix Publishers, pages 47-51}{
\b\v\fs24\lang2057 </&>}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \lang2057 {W2F017K
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang1031 {\fs24\lang2057 <I> <h> <#/>The Footstool </h>
\par <#/>Today I had trouble with
 my boss in the office. <#/>Twice or thrice, the boss caught me taking a nap with my head on the desk. <#/>I tried to explain why I was dozing but he was not interested. <#/>He walked out on me. <#/>I wonder what his next step will be. <#/>He said once or
 twice in the past that it is unbecoming to doze in the office.
\par <#/>"Why don't you sleep at home if you must then come to the office when you have slept enough?" <#/>He did not mean it, of course. <#/>He was only being nasty.
\par <#/>I spent the whole of last n
ight keeping vigil over our son who had bronchitis contracted after working outdoors for several hours a night in a bid to complete a carpentry school project. <#/>He would have taken longer had his father not helped him every night.
\par <#/>I had watched the 
pair from where I sat in the house as they sawed, joined together pieces of timber only to knock them apart, saw and begin hammering them all over again. <#/>The pair, as they worked together, were a picture of harmony between father and son. <#/>Of late 
t
hey have been inseparable. <#/>Sometimes I fear my husband will accompany the boy to class one of these days to help him out with the teacher's questions. <#/>This closeness reaches deep into a large reservoir of fear and apprehension that I carry around 
with me, stirring it to life. <#/>God, I hope we shall not have to pay a price again.
\par <#/>I came home from work a little late one day to behold what I then thought was an innocent scene. <#/>My husband and our six-year-old son were playing on the sofa much 
to the delight of the other four children. <#/>My intrusion, however, caused a momentary pause in the laughter but I was soon dismissed and the laughter went on. <#/>I had almost joined in the laughter when I noticed that the two had stopped playing. <#/>
A
 look at the boy's face told me that he was not amused. <#/>The grin on his mouth pointed to great annoyance. <#/>He looked at me and I could see that the only reason why he was not crying was the fact that his brothers and sisters were all laughter. <#/>
I looked at the father but his face registered innocence. <#/>I was lost.
\par <#/>"What is happening here? <#/>Are you two turning into wrestlers or something?" I asked, trying to sound casual.
\par <#/>"I was trying to gauge how strong this boy is. <#/>You know from the look of his body, you would think he is the strongest of the boys."
\par <#/>"What did you discover?"
\par <#/>"Nothing".
\par <#/>There was more laughter. <#/>The children seemed to have enjoyed the `wrestli
ng bout'. <#/>I passed on into the kitchen but I did not stay. <#/>Something called for explanation. <#/>A seemingly innocent father, an angry boy and shrieks of laughter from the rest was an awkward setting. <#/>Why would my husband want to gauge the str
ength of the boy? <#/>I walked out again into the same scene. <#/>This time, Gachara was not there. <#/>The laughter had subsided.
\par <#/>The rest of the evening was fairly quiet. <#/>Gachara joined the other children again and soon began chatting. <#/>I resolved to broach the subject of \lquote measuring\rquote 
 strength later in bed but I did not. <#/>I would do it in the morning. <#/>When morning came I did not. <#/>I was obviously afraid. <#/>My curiosity, however, persisted.
\par <#/>I did not personally see a repeat of the 
`bout' until six months later. <#/>This is not to say that it had not happened. <#/>It had. <#/>Several times I found Gachara in a foul mood. <#/>He had told me his father had started the wrestling game after which he had pinned him down with the legs res
ting one on his head and the other on his shoulders. <#/>"I do not mind playing," he told me one day, "but when he pins me down, he keeps his legs on me for so long that I get very tired. <#/>When I tell him to let me go, he laughs and calls me a coward."

\par <
#/>It happened on a Saturday afternoon as we all sat having some tea. <#/>Gachara was sitting with the baby on the floor when the father casually moved and sat on the chair next to the two. <#/>they were so busy playing that Gachara did not notice his fat
h
er approaching. <#/>I could hardly believe it when he casually put both his legs on the boy's shoulders. <#/>The sudden weight of the two legs on his small body made the boy bend forward so that his chin rested on his knees. <#/>Once when he managed to tu
rn his face slightly sideways towards where I sat, I could see pain and fear on that face.
\par <#/>As calmly as I could, I strode to where the \lquote bout\rquote  was taking place and roughly shoved the legs off the boy's shoulders. <#/>The boy slowly and painfully straight
ened out, stood and shot off to the boys' bedroom leaving the baby calling after him. <#/>The other children were not amused this time. <#/>I could not tell whether they did or did not know what was happening.
\par <#/>"What habit is this?" I asked Joe trying to be as calm as I could.
\par <#/>What habit are you talking about?" he asked, visibly angry. <#/>"We were simply playing, or am I not supposed to play with my children? <#/>Does the new teaching among educated women prohibit fathers from playing with their children?"
\par <#/>Several times I attempted to say something but all I did was to open my mouth. <#/>Anger was welling up in me and was threatening to flood my eyes. <#/>He knew very well that he was doing more than `play' with the boy and he talked about educat
ed women as if he himself was not educated and more so as if being educated was a crime. <#/>I swallowed hard in an attempt to stop the spillover. <#/>I breathed in and out as deeply and as slowly as possible in a bid to control my racing heart. <#/>I had
 to get to the bottom of this.
\par <#/>"All I want to know is why you treat him the way you do," I said. <#/>"You treat him like an equal. <#/>Don't you think you could harm him? <#/>The boy is only six. <#/>And why him and not the others?"
\par <#/>"He is named after your father, that is why you are protecting him," he replied accusingly.
\par <#/>Those words pierced my heart deeper than a sword. <#/>My husband whom I loved was surely mad.
\par <#/>"He is a child, a small boy," I explained naively, picked up the baby and walk
ed off slowly. <#/>The baby felt heavier than usual. <#/>She was silent and looked solemn. <#/>I tried to smile at her but no smile came. <#/>Did she understand what had transpired between us? <#/>Did she also know that something was gravely wrong? <#/>Sh
e clung to me like one afraid. <#/>What was she afraid of? <#/>Or had she been reminded of two quarrels we had had a few months after she was conceived? <#/>The intra-uterine device I was using had failed. <#/>\lquote 
You should have taken better care of yourself,\rquote  my husband had told me.
\par <#/>Kanini, I suppose, had heard it all in the womb and this exchange of words had reminded her of it.
\par <#/>I found him seated on the floor of the boys' bedroom. <#/>He leaned on one of the beds. <#/>He was not crying but the lonel
y figure he cut and the helplessness written on his face made me cry. <#/>I sat on his bed. <#/>The baby struggled free and joined her brother on the floor. <#/>Although Gachara took her outstretched little hands, and made her sit on his small lap, he did
 not answer to what passed as his name. <#/>Kanini gave up after a few spirited attempts. <#/>She now <-/focussed> on one of Gachara's buttons.
\par <#/>"Why do you play such games with your father?" I asked amid sobs.
\par <#/>"I don't," he said.
\par <#/>"What do you mean?" I asked.
\par <#/>"He places his legs on my head and shoulders and when I complain that it hurts me, he says that I am a coward. <#/>He says that you, Kanini and I should go back to where we came from. <#/>We do not belong here."
\par <#/>I was in turmoil. <#/>
The man I loved and married had succumbed to something whose nature I could not comprehend. <#/>I had seen it elsewhere, however. <#/>After a series of disagreements between her and her husband, one of my sisters- in-law had suddenly turned against one of
 her sons. <#/>It had taken a concerted effort by members of both her families to persuade her to see the unreasonableness of it all. <#/>Did this `madness' run in families?
\par <#/>After a slight lull, the `bouts' in our house resumed and with greater frequenc
y. <#/>Sometimes my husband would order the boy to go to him and sit beside him. <#/>He would wait for the boy to relax only to suddenly place his legs on the usual place. <#/>The boy would get so tired he would plead for mercy.
\par <#/>"Father, I am very tire
d, please remove your legs." <#/>He would repeat this several times, but my husband would just laugh. <#/>Every time I managed to rescue the boy, it would trigger a tirade of insults. <#/>He seemed obsessed with the fact that the boy was named after my fa
ther. <#/>It was as if he had not known it all the time. <#/>The way I saw it, the boy's only crime was the name he bore.
\par <#/>The bouts began taking their toll on the other children. <#/>They became unhappy and irritable. <#/>This was not the father they kn
ew. <#/>Our house turned cold. <#/>School grades came down, inviting more wrath on Gachara. <#/>I fought on but things got worse. <#/>I was going to seek help elsewhere but subsequent events made it unnecessary.
\par <#/>Our two other sons died. <#/>They died o
n the same day in a bus accident with a dozen other children. <#/>The children were travelling to the North-Western Province to perform in the annual National Cultural Festival. <#/>I shall not dwell on the incident because to do so is to relive it all.

\par <#
/>It shattered the family and the neighbourhood. <#/>I've never seen that kind of outpouring of grief. <#/>They felt it with us. <#/>They supported us. <#/>The boys were eulogised and the speakers, one after another, pleaded with the government to make ro
ads safer to cut down on the accidents.
\par <#/>"We would like to appeal to the government to improve the roads so that we do not continue losing lives needlessly. <#/>It is not right that such young lives should be cut short," one speaker said.
\par <#/>What he did not know, of course, was that there was more than a road accident. <#/>God had moved. <#/>He had brought vengeance }{\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>idiom }{\fs24\lang2057 
to teach my husband a lesson. <#/>Unfortunately, what affected him affected the remaining children and <-_I><+_me>. <#/>What bitte
r triumph could there be for me? <#/>They were my sons also. <#/>I had loved them as much as he had. <#/>To him, they were his father and brother but really they were not. <#/>They were only children, our children. <#/>They were named after his father and
 brother. <#/>They were not them. <#/>They had never been and never would be! <#/>It cannot be.
\par <#/>The shock of the boys' deaths, however, changed my husband somewhat. <#/>The boy he had disliked had suddenly become the only son he had and he gradually cha
nged. <#/>He began to love him and there were times he was almost over-protective towards him. <#/>He had learnt his lesson but at what cost?
\par <#/>Later in my solitude, I wished that life could be pushed back. <#/>That I would somehow hear and call their na
mes again. <#/>That I would awaken to discover it was but a dream. <#/>What with the two fresh mounds I could see through the window? <#/>It was not a dream.
\par <#/>Then I thought again of the naming system that gave some people the dangerous illusion that they were seeing and hearing what they were not, a system that transformed little boys and girls from bundles of sheer joy into \lquote fathers\rquote , 
\lquote mothers\rquote , \lquote brothers\rquote , and \lquote sisters\rquote 
. <#/>Innocent children turned into scapegoats, often maltreated to pay the price for evil, real or imagined, perpetrated by those who had passed on. <#/>What crime had my son committed other than carrying my father's name?
\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>I would do something for myself. <#/>Did not the same system give provision for \lquote resurrecting\rquote 
 the dead if one so wished? <#/>If we could use one clause in the `Code of Conduct', why not use yet another? <#/>I would begin all over until I gave birth to two boys.
\par <#/>I was revelling in these thoughts when I remembered that it was not possible. <#/>After the birth of Kanini, my husband had insisted that I go through a \lquote minor\rquote 
 operation. <#/>The doctor I went to see kept referring to it in the same way. <#/>The T.L.* stops me from `replacing' my sons.
\par * tubal ligation}{\fs24\lang2057 </X>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Karega, Muthoni 'The Footstool'
\par From E. Nzioki/ W. Kabira/ M. Karega (eds) }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 They've Destroyed the Temple}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057  (1992) Longman Kenya, pp 71-75}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 </&>}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par W2F018K
\par <I> <h> <#/>Mother of Daughters </h>
\par <#/>Alth
ough Nduta herself thought that five children were enough for her, she thought of trying for a sixth child with the hope that it would be a boy and maybe win happiness from her already hostile husband. <#/>He had beaten her, denied her financial help, ins
u
lted her in front of children and visitors, tortured her psychologically and even rejected her daughters. <#/>However, she had persevered and hoped for a boy. <#/>With a lot of anxiety and hope, Nduta waited for the nine months to end with, perhaps, a son
. <#/>But God gave Nduta yet another daughter to the great fury of her husband. <#/>To put it mildly, misery accompanied the arrival of the new baby in the family and things got worse.
\par <#/>However, although things moved from bad to worse the poor woman trie
d to make her Mr. <#/>Right happy by totally taking up the responsibilities of running the home financially. <#/>She paid school fees for their children, bought their uniforms and other clothes, bought all the necessities of the family, bought house furni
t
ure and all necessary house equipment and as if that was not enough for her, she took a loan and stocked up a shop for her husband for he had recently lost his job. <#/>In short, she had to forego all the luxuries of a woman, all for the sake of maintaini
ng peace with her husband. <#/>Yet sadly enough for her, Mr. <#/>Right never appreciated anything his wife did, he never could.
\par <#/>As the story had it, this Mr. Right's \lquote appreciation\rquote  towards his wife was to marry a bar-maid who apparently was an employee 
at his off-licence bar and who herself was a mother of five children. <#/>His reason for marrying this woman was that she had sons and his wife had none. <#/>But then, this marriage, even after Nduta swallowed the bitter pill and accepted a co- wife, did 
not make things any better for her.
\par <#/>The day was 4th of November. <#/>A very ordinary and normal day for Nduta. <#/>It was a working day and as usual she prepared herself to leave for her place of work, a primary school where she was a teacher, with her 
five-year-old daughter as her sole companion. <#/>Little did she or her little daughter know that what was to befall her in a few hours' time would remain a terrible nightmare all her life. <#/>To her children, her relatives, friends and workmates it was 
both unthinkable and <-/unbelieveable>. <#/>A real tragedy.
\par <#/>As her place of work was far, Nduta as usual boarded a <ea/>matatu which took her nearer her school. <#/>She alighted at a shopping centre where she alighted everyday and where her husband ran 
their family shop and off-licence bar, Holding her daughter by the hand, she started walking towards the school which was a stone's throw away from the shops. <#/>Fondly known by the locals as `Mwalimu' she answered their morning greetings as she walked o
n.
\par <#/>Then all of a sudden, Nduta was gripped by a man whom she recognized as her husband's best friend. <#/>Although it seemed very strange for this particular man to hold her hand so firmly, Nduta did not scream or suspect anything was wrong since the ma
n was very well known to her. <#/>Before Nduta could seek an explanation from him, another man joined the first one and both men dragged Nduta towards her husband's shop. <#/>Now Nduta was very apprehensive.
\par <#/>As Nduta was dragged into their shop, she sa
w her husband coming from the direction of the bus stop which was not very far away. <#/>He strode fast and joined the other two men. <#/>If Nduta thought the two men were up to some mischief, she probably almost regretted the thought after seeing her hus
b
and, whom she thought would come to her rescue. <#/>However, this was not to be as Nduta found out in a matter of seconds. <#/>Her husband grabbed her hand and sarcastically informed her that she would be late to school but, not to worry as he had sent a 
note to the headmaster informing him they had a family problem to sort out first.
\par <#/>Poor Nduta, innocent of any crime and acting the good obedient wife that she was, followed her husband inside to an inner room, without arguing or asking any questions. <#
/>On entering this inner room, her husband locked it behind them. <#/>As Nduta looked inside after hearing her husband lock the door, she realised then that they were not alone. <#/>His two friends were also there and Nduta wondered why as she expected to
 
discuss a domestic matter with her husband alone. <#/>The presence of the two men in the room worried Nduta but before she thought of asking her husband why there were other people in the room, the two men knocked her down on the floor and held her firmly
 down.
\par <#/>Realising that she was in great danger, Nduta tried to disentangle herself from the men's grip and escape but the men were too strong for her. <#/>She tried to cry out as loudly as she could and even shouted for help, but unfortunately nobody cou
ld hear her, because the room in which she was detained was virtually sound-proof and it was locked from inside. <#/>Overcome by agony, Nduta just gave up shouting and lay there, helpless. <#/>Everything moved very fast. <#/>Confusion, then the sight of h
e
r husband drawing a sharp knife from his pocket. <#/>Then pain, real agony as he, her one-time Mr. <#/>Right, pierced her eyes with the sharp knife several times. <#/>And then everything was total darkness. <#/>All that she felt was agony and blood spilli
ng all over her face. <#/>It was maddening, agony all over as he carried out his inhuman operation of gouging Nduta's eyes out.
\par <#/>As if the agony of gouging her eyes out when she was fully conscious was not enough, he hit her with a bottle on the head and
 she passed out. <#/>Satisfied now that his mission was fully and successfully accomplished, Mr. <#/>Right left Nduta for dead.
\par <#/>Minutes after seeing her father walk away, Nduta's daughter who had been hovering outside the shop, ran into the inner room 
to find her mother in a prostrate position, a pool of blood around her and her eyes gouged out. <#/>Not knowing what to do but obviously sensing that her mother needed immediate help, the poor little girl started screaming. <#/>Like a bad nightmare, Nduta
 
vaguely heard the shrill voice of her five-year-old daughter asking her what her father had done to her eyes. <#/>Nduta did not answer, she couldn't, but somewhere in the oblivion, those cries of her daughter continued faintly before she slid back into to
tal unconsciousness.
\par <#/>Frightened and terrified like a mouse, the poor little girl ran out of the room screaming at the top of her voice. <#/>She ran to the school where her mother taught and told the sad story to a teacher. <#/>Along with other teachers 
they went to Nduta's aid. <#/>By the time they got to the shop a few other people were already there and arrangements were made to rush Nduta to hospital.
\par <#/>Nduta did not regain consciousness until much later in a hospital ward, and even when she finally
 came to, she was a very different person from the one who had left her house to go to her place of work on that fateful morning. <#/>She was blind, totally blind. <#/>With a lot of bitterness. <#/>Still lying on the hospital bed, Nduta relived the memori
e
s of that fateful morning. <#/>The brutality of her ungrateful, heartless husband. <#/>She had tried and done everything possible to make him happy. <#/>She never, even for a fraction of a second, thought that he could be so cruel and heartless. <#/>She h
ardly believed that he was responsible for what happened, and kept on hoping that it was indeed a nightmare, a bad and sad dream from which she would soon wake up.
\par <#/>But alas! <#/>it was no dream, no nightmare but the naked reality of the matter. <#/>For 
seven weeks, Nduta stayed in hospital and when she finally left, she went home to her children totally blind. <#/>Although the actual bodily pain was much less now, the mental pain was worse and still fresh in Nduta's mind.
\par <#/>It was when she was `listening' to her pains that she heard a voice from Wangui, her first daughter, "Mama, we are here. <#/>You are not blind. <#/>You have six pairs of eyes. <#/>Your six daughters are here. <#/>You have nothing to worry about."

\par <#/>"Mama, leave everything to us. <#/>You are a mother of daughters and they will never leave you alone," said Wanja, the second daughter. </I>
\par <I> <#/>It was ten o'clock in the morning when the loud ringing of her bedside telephone woke Njoki from her drunken sleep. <#/>She loathed the ring
ing and tried to put her shaking fingers in her ears to block it. <#/>She cursed for having forgotten to unhook the downstairs receiver as she always did before going to bed especially on weekends.
\par <#/>The ringing persisted and when she could not bear it anymore, she unwillingly picked up the receiver, eyes still closed, as if to stop it making the noise. <#/>"I wonder why people don't leave others alone to sleep, especially on a Saturday morning."

\par <#/>"Hello, who is it?" she mumbled the words more drunkenly than sleepily.
\par <#/>"Hello, Njoki. <#/>It's me. <#/>Njuguna. <#/>I'm sorry ... <#/>did I wake you up? <#/>You sound sleepy."
\par <#/>There was a hostile pause before Njoki spoke.
\par <#/>"Don't apologise for assuming you woke me up because you already have ... <#/>just tell me, what is it that you want? <#/>Waking me up so early on a Saturday morning!"
\par <#/>"Wait a minute ... <#/>it is not so early as you think, it is way past ten <-/o'oclock> and "
\par <#/>"What difference does it make anyway whether it is ten or twelve ... <#/>just tell me what you want and the sooner you are out with it the better BEFORE I put this phone down."
\par <#/>"Hasn't Maina told you?"
\par <#/>"Told me what ... about your new business and how successful it is?" she retorted.
\par <#/>"I sent him the day before yesterday to tell you that I wanted to see you ... <#/>I want us to talk...." he told her, ignoring her remarks.
\par <#/>"Ha! <#/>Talk? <#/>Talk about what ... the success of
 your businesses ... or where you are going for your endless long weekend meetings with your new overseas business partners... <#/>I thought we finished talking all that ... <#/>at least you were not to involve me anymore with your trips, local or oversea
s, your late meetings <-/etcetra>, <-/etcetra>, <-/etcetra>..."
\par <#/>"Listen Njoki, I have to see you ... <#/>I must talk to you ... today, please, this is my last appeal to you..." he again ignored all that she said.
\par <#/>"I'm sorry Njuguna, anyway your frie
nd Maina hasn't told me anything and in any case it's no use. <#/>I'm leaving for Mombasa this evening and I'll be busy packing my bags. <#/>I won't have time to sit and talk to you. <#/>Have you forgotten that I've been married to a busy businessman whos
e
 business was mostly to travel and meet business contacts both locally and abroad, offer dinners, luncheons and late night meetings with 'business associates'? <#/>And therefore that being the case, the wife of a businessman also has to make trips and mak
e business contacts... <#/>How about that?" <#/>Njoki was very sarcastic. <#/>However Njuguna knew that if he felt provoked and said anything to annoy her, he would be denying himself a chance to talk to her.
\par <#/>"In that case I had better come right away before you get busy packing. <#/>Njoki, it is absolutely important that I talk to you ... <#/>face to face," he said.
\par <#/>"That is not possible because right now I am going to ...."
\par <#/>"Listen to me Njoki, for once I beg you to afford me just a little of your time, for old times sake."
\par <#/>There was silence. <#/>Then Njoki spoke.
\par <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>"Now that's what I call a good business trick. <#/>So, then ... <#/>if you insist and it is so important that you have to talk to me, you can come now." Then without furthe
r communication, she dropped the receiver on its rest, silently cursing her husband. <#/>"Why can't he leave me alone!" ... }{\fs24\lang2057 </X>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Ngurikie, Pat \lquote Mother of Daughters\rquote  From E. Nzioki/W. Kabira/M. Karega (1992) }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 They've Destroyed The Temple}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 , Longman Kenya, pp. 86-89 Ngurikie, Pat Wambui (1991) }{
\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 Businessman's Wife}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057  1-2}{\b\fs24\lang2057  }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 </&>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par W2F019K
\par <I> <h> <#/>The Ring </h>
\par <#/>"Under the law this woman is a concubine, a mistress, certainly not a wife. <#/>She has no right whatsoever to the estate," said the lawyer to his 
colleagues. <#/>The words were uttered in a detached, matter-of-fact way. <#/>The lawyer could be forgiven. <#/>He had no idea who Kanini was. <#/>To him, she was just another client, yet another file to be disposed of.
\par <#/>The lawyer was expressing the ba
re truth as he saw it, the facts having been narrated to him by the young woman in front of him, whose full name he had not even bothered to register, and Mbugua, a male adult who accompanied her. <#/>He certainly had not expected the outrage that followe
d his words. <#/>Suddenly, as if struck by lightning, the girl shot up with a scream and hurled the papers in front of her at his face. <#/>Then it was the handbag which he just managed to wave off with his left hand before it landed on his head.
\par <#/>"How d
are you?" she was screaming. <#/>"A mistress? <#/>a <./concu>... what? <#/>Why mom?" <#/>With the swiftness of a deer stung by a bee, she was now on to his assistant's desk picking up whatever was on it, and hurling each object at him. <#/>There was a tis
sue-box, files, books, keys and a heavy ashtray which landed right in front of him narrowly missing his eye-glasses before Mbugua grabbed her with great difficulty, imprisoning her hand in his grip, more shocked than Muchai, the lawyer, and his assistant.

\par <
#/>Mbugua did not understand English. <#/>He could not figure out what on earth could have transpired between his beloved niece, Kui, and the lawyer. <#/>The lawyer had not said much. <#/>Mbugua had observed casually how patient the man had been in listen
i
ng to him first and then briefly to Kui. <#/>Mbugua was at a loss as to what to say or do. <#/>He did not know how to handle the lawyer whose eyes he dared not meet for fear of the anger he would find there. <#/>Nor could he cope with the now sobbing Kui 
c
lose to him, her earlier wild-cat behaviour suddenly gone as quickly as it had come. <#/>Totally unaware of the cause of the outrage, Mbugua was taken aback by the lawyer's next course of action. <#/>Muchai had finally stood up, and walked to where Mbugua
 stood with his sobbing niece. <#/>The two men's eyes now met.
\par <#/>What Mbugua saw in that pair of eyes was far from anger or outrage. <#/>No! <#/>It was kindness and sympathy. <#/>Approaching them, Muchai put his right hand on Kui's shoulder, and uttered w
ords that even Mbugua knew contained a deep and sincere apology.
\par <#/>"I am extremely sorry. <#/>That was a blunder on my part. <#/>I did not know we were discussing the case of your ...er <./moth>... <#/>Someone so close to you... <#/>I was really thinking
 aloud... <#/>Please forgive me Miss...er... <#/>I'm sorry." <#/>Muchai remembered he did not have the girl's name. <#/>"Please sit down and explain the situation. <#/>Tell me what happened from the beginning to the end."
\par <#/>Kui's sobs were beginning to e
ase and she had managed to extract herself from her uncle's firm grip. <#/>Her mind's eye was flashing with the images of a lawyer who had already been bribed by her father's sons. <#/>Yes! <#/>That is what they were. <#/>She would never again refer to th
e
m as brothers, even half-ones. <#/>Not after they had started harassing her beloved, humble mother the evening after her father's funeral. <#/>Kui, so full of bitterness and hate for her father's sons, now refused to separate their evil designs from this 
l
awyer whom her friend, Carol, had so strongly recommended. <#/>She was not going to listen to any other word from him. <#/>But her uncle was pleading with her in their vernacular, "My mother, did you not tell me you wish to become a lawyer? <#/>What kind 
of lawyer will you be that does not listen to a case?"
\par <#/>Reluctantly Kui sat down. <#/>This time she let her uncle narrate the whole story to the lawyer. <#/>She also left him to answer all the questions. <#/>This is what Mbugua told the lawyer:
\par <#/>"My s
ister, Mrs Kanini, wife of the late Jeremiah, married the deceased in 1942. <#/>My father received the usual dowry and the couple were married according to Gikuyu customary law. <#/>Before that, my in-law was married to another woman, Mrs Murugi wife of J
e
remiah. <#/>They had married in church. <#/>They had seven children, three daughters and four sons. <#/>Murugi was said to be estranged from her husband. <#/>Some said she had tried to poison him although she was a strong adherent of her church. <#/>A str
ange woman she still is. <#/>Sometimes she'll talk to you, sometimes she will pass as if she did not see you.
\par <#/>"My sister had four daughters. <#/>Kui is the last born. <#/>The wives lived on their different plots, each minding her own business and left i
t to their husband to create the family link. <#/>Their cold relationship was transferred to the children. <#/>Murugi's children resented Kanini. <#/>They saw her as an intruder. <#/>But Kanini is a good cook and children love good food. <#/>It was also t
o Kanini's house that their father went on his weekends from Nairobi where he worked. <#/>He brought bread, meat and other delicacies that their mother could not afford.
\par <#/>"There was one threat Murugi never forgot to issue during their quarrels and whose implication Kanini never came to unravel until Jeremiah died. <#/>She would say, `One of these days, you will know the value of a ring.' Kanini knew she was the favouri
te wife. <#/>It was in her house that Jeremiah stayed whenever he was home. <#/>It was she who was called to Nairobi whenever he was unwell. <#/>What was all this about a ring? <#/>What use was a ring to a wife if her husband did not cherish her?
\par <#/>When t
he Emergency came, and people had to move into communal villages, the two families were thrown together in one house. <#/>Jeremiah could not afford to build two. <#/>The Emergency would be a short-lived affair anyway, Jeremiah told himself. <#/><ea/>Uhuru
 
would come whether the white man wanted it or not. <#/>Why bother building two houses that would only be lived in for a short while? <#/>So Murugi and Kanini found themselves forced into a bond that was to outcast their husband who did not really care whe
t
her they got on well or not. <#/>Did the Gikuyu not say that two axes in the same bag must knock each other? <#/>Not that their tolerance, leading to an uneasy understanding, happened overnight. <#/>Oh no! <#/>Sometimes it takes a calamity to force humani
ty to recognise its common fate.
\par <#/>"The two women had been forced to share common facilities. <#/>Initially each would cook at different times, each one for her own children. <#/>Whoever woke up earlier would light the fire and cook for her own children. 
<#/>If Murugi woke up early, which she would do deliberately, she would put porridge on the fire and leave it cooking for several hours insisting it took long to cook and if Kanini could not wait, why did she not go and cook breakfast for her children els
e
where. <#/>Kanini had no choice but to wait while, in the meantime, she would run other errands like fetching water or cleaning the house. <#/>What would neighbours say if they saw a family that cannot use a common fire- place? <#/>After all, in this Emer
gency, people were expected to share whatever little provision they had. <#/>Such was the spirit of the people during those days of extreme deprivation.
\par <#/>"The only problem was that when Murugi finally felt that Kanini and her children, who by now would b
e crying with hunger, had been adequately punished, she would ensure the fire went out completely before Kanini could get to it. <#/>Any pieces of unburnt firewood would be removed and several times Kanini even found traces of water on the ashes. <#/>At f
i
rst, it was difficult for Kanini to cope with such extreme meanness. <#/>She would take it out on Murugi's children, denying them any of her food. <#/>After all Murugi never gave her children any. <#/>As time went by, however, she softened. <#/>Meanness w
a
s not part of her nature. <#/>In any case how could you deny children food when you had it? <#/>How could you allow other children to yawningly watch your own children eat when their mother left the house at eight in the morning and had not returned by cu
rfew time at six-thirty? <#/>Out of kindness and necessity, Kanini started cooking enough food for all. <#/>Theirs was a one- sided relationship that was bound to explode at the least provocation.
\par <#/>"One day, Murugi came home to find her last- born son, K
ogi, unwell. <#/>She was told he had vomited soon after she left and after several other bouts of vomiting Kanini had given him some rice water. <#/>Then came the venom. <#/>Totally ignoring the fact that her child was glad he had drunk rice water which m
ade him better, Murugi could not contain her feelings of hate. <#/>She lashed out at Kanini:
\par <#/>`When did I ask you to look after my children? <#/>You witch! <#/>When are you going to leave me alone? <#/>Is my husband not enough for you or now that you hav
e failed to bear him sons you want to kill mine also! <#/>When did you become a doctor? <#/>Why didn't you take my son to the dispensary if you wanted to be so helpful? <#/>If my son dies I'll hold you responsible!'
\par <#/>"Kanini was struck dumb. <#/>For the
 first time she realised the risk she would run if anything happened to Kogi. <#/>Above the noises Murugi was making, neither the two women nor their children heard the soft steps of the Old One - Cucu - although her walking stick always drew attention to
 
her advent. <#/>Cucu was fast becoming hard of hearing, but she felt in the air commotion from her son's house next door. <#/>She had always been aware of the evil in Murugi. <#/>Of late she had also noticed Murugi's strange habit of coming home after dar
k
 in these days of the Emergency curfew but being only too familiar with and dreading Murugi's nasty tongue, she had decided to let sleeping dogs lie. <#/>News had reached them that Jeremiah had been rounded up during Operation Anvil and no one knew which 
camp he had been taken to. <#/>It now fell hard on his poor mother to oversee peace in the family. <#/>She had six other sons but none of them had more than one wife.
\par <#/>"When Jeremiah came out of detention five years later, a confirmed diabetic losing sig
ht in both eyes, people had already been allowed to go to their <ea/>shambas. <#/>Murugi's first son, Babu, had a good job and had put up a timber house roofed with corrugated iron sheets. <#/>Her other children's education had been disrupted and two boys
 had dropped out for lack of school fees while the oldest daughter had dropped out due to pregnancy.
\par <#/>"Kanini's first-born, Njoki, had trained as a teacher and had managed to keep her three sisters in school. <#/>She also occasionally assisted Babu in the education of his two younger sisters and brothers.
\par <#/>"Kanini was still living in the family house in the village and it was to this home that Jeremiah came and retired. <#/>His health did not improve and it fell on Kanini to take care of him and for Nj
oki to provide any extras needed for a diabetic. <#/>Each wife still cultivated her own piece of land. <#/>As Kanini spent more and more time taking care of the invalid husband, she was increasingly forced to neglect her <ea/>shamba. <#/>During the school
 holidays, her girls did as much as they could to help clear the weeds, plant or harvest. <#/>But then vacations are short-lived.
\par <#/>"The old man was now in and out of hospital. <#/>Murugi would see him in hospital but never at home.<X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057  <#/>She said Kanin
i was not taking proper care of him. <#/>She even accused Kanini of wanting Jeremiah to die in her house so that the world might know she was the one taking care of him. <#/>One day she repeated her threat of many years now: `One of these days, you will d
i
scover the power of the ring.' But Kanini was too emotionally strained by her husband's illness and the wish to make his life comfortable to care about Murugi's threat. <#/>What did she care about rings and properties for as long as Jeremiah was alive? <#
/
>Was her daughter, Njoki, not already putting up a stone house for them on the village plot? <#/>Surely her <ea/>shamba could feed three stomachs for ever. <#/>What property was bigger than Jeremiah's health? <#/>She prayed to God to heal him and relieve 
him of pain. <#/>And as if in answer to her prayers, he hung on - at times not seeing at all-yet cheerful and appreciative of her care.
\par <#/>"At last the family moved into the new house built right next to the old one. <#/>The girls had done a good job of fu
rnishing it with the old furniture thoroughly scrubbed, with only one addition - a double bed for their parents. <#/>The old man was delighted. <#/>he spat on his chest and blessed his `mother' for Njoki was named after his mother. <#/>Murugi saw the new 
house from afar. <#/>She would not come to see her husband even when Kanini sent a child to say Jeremiah was asking for her.
\par <#/>"Two days later he was taken to hospital at 5 a.m. and initially showed signs of improvement. <#/>He died in his sleep but before the nurses left him the previous night, he had told them how God had blessed him in his wife, Kanini.
\par <#/>"Jeremiah died believing he had enough for his family. <#/>He was happy they were not sharing the same compound for he knew of Murugi's animosity towards Kanini. <#/>He had heard of wills but then only <ea/>}{\i\v\fs24\lang2057 wazungu}{
\v\fs24\lang2057  wrote wills. <#/>Africans had their own ways of sharing out land. <#/>His father had given him enough land which he had passed to his two wives and their children. <#/>He had no inkling tha
t there would be trouble. <#/>There was enough land for everybody. <#/>His brothers would sort out any trouble but then who would bring trouble? <#/>He was not a poor man. <#/>There was plenty of land. <#/>He would not have considered a will necessary. <#
/>No one wills himself before death. <#/>That is a bad omen."
\par <#/>Kui did not want to talk to anybody when she got home that evening. <#/>Her uncle Mbugua would explain to her mother and the others what the lawyer had said. <#/>Picking up the newspaper she 
had not had time to read that disturbing day, she ran to the room she shared with her sister, locked the door and dropped her bag and the newspaper on the bed. <#/>She needed peace. <#/>She picked up her Bible then put it down again. <#/>To her, even God 
seemed to have taken sides with those fighting against her mother. <#/>She picked up her bag and put it on the floor. <#/>She picked up the newspaper, intending to drop it on the floor too. <#/>Then a headline on the back page caught her eye:
\par <#/>CHURCH WEDDING INTERRUPTED: }{\i\v\fs24\lang2057 Woman claims she is the groom's wife}{\v\fs24\lang2057 .
\par <#/>Kui sat down abruptly and read through the article. <#/>The clergyman had not finished putting the question to the gathered congregation - `If anyone has any objection...' when a woman shouted `YE
S' and, accompanied by four children, walked to the front and introduced herself as Mrs. Magdalena Wanjau, married to the groom in April 1978 under customary law. <#/>In his utter embarrassment, the groom had been incoherent in his explanation. <#/>The ch
ildren, bearing striking resemblance to their father, pleaded with him not to abandon them. <#/>The bride burst into tears and was consoled by her maids. <#/>The congregation was shocked.
\par <#/>Kui's earlier anger returned. <#/>This time she was angry with wo
men. <#/>Some women. <#/>Neither those who married traditionally like her mother not those who married in church like the one whose aborted marriage she had just been reading about. <#/>She was angry with those who were better informed. <#/>The lawyers. <
#/>They were the ones who understood the confusion of multiple marriage laws in the country and the pain it was causing in families. <#/>Why were they so quiet about it? <#/>Are human rights only political? <#/>Are they not social as well?
\par <#/>Kui made a promise, `I shall train as a lawyer. <#/>I shall strive to get a B average grade to qualify to go to the university. <#/>then I shall educate my fellow women on where they stand as regards the law on marriage.'</X>
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Gachukia, Eddah Wacheke 'The Ring'
\par From E. Nzioki/W. Kabira/M. Karega (1992) }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 They've Destroyed The Temple}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 , Longman Kenya, pp 2-6 </&>
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par W2F020K
\par <I> <h> <#/>The Spider's Web </h>
\par <#/>I heard the scream. <#/>I shot out of sleep with a jerk. <#/>It was after waking up that I thought I must have
 been dreaming. <#/>But it came again. <#/>A blood-chilling scream. <#/>I immediately thought of my daughter, Anne, who had been having nightmares lately.
\par <#/>"Anne! <#/>Anne! <#/>What is it?" I called out, panic-stricken. <#/>Before she responded I heard 
another scream, this time more deafening and frightening than before. <#/>I jumped out of bed and rushed to Anne's bedroom. <#/>To my relief, she was deeply asleep and seemed least disturbed. <#/>Another desperate scream pierced my ears. <#/>It came from 
outside the house. <#/>I hurried out to the living room wondering who it could be.
\par <#/>Then I remembered Lucy, my friend and neighbour, who had been having problems with her husband. <#/>I tiptoed to open the windows in the living room to ascertain the dire
ction of the screams. <#/>When the next scream came, it confirmed my worst fears. <#/>Lucy was in trouble and needed help. <#/>But I dared not venture to her house because her husband was quite a violent man. <#/>He had a strong dislike for women, particu
larly Lucy's friends.
\par <#/>I walked back to our bedroom. <#/>My husband, Joe, was awake. <#/>When I asked him to go and assist Lucy, he seemed reluctant to intervene because he knew Lucy's husband and his violent nature. <#/>He was certain that when Jared, L
ucy's husband, was in that murderous state, he was capable of doing anything.
\par <#/>Jared was known to be unfaithful to his wife but he tried to cover up this by accusing Lucy of unfaithfulness. <#/>My husband was not willing to intervene because Jared would
 accuse him of being one of Lucy's lovers. <#/>I tried to persuade Joe that what was at stake was more serious than what Jared might do to him but he would not budge.
\par <#/>Suddenly, there was a loud <-/desparate> bang on our back door. <#/>I rushed to the door, switched on the security light and who should I see standing out there but Lucy! <#/>Stark naked! <#/>I could not believe my eyes. <#/>I was trembling as I opene
d
 the door for her. <#/>She had scratches all over her body. <#/>One of her eyes was swollen. <#/>Blood was oozing from her nose and mouth. <#/>Her hair was dishevelled. <#/>There were so many bruises on her body that it looked as if a witchdoctor had perf
ormed numerous rituals on her. <#/>Her grotesque appearance sent a chill down my spine. <#/>It was a surprise that she could stand, let alone walk.
\par <#/>Her three-year-old daughter who also had blood on her body clutched at her chest like a tick. <#/>She too
 was naked. <#/>It was a truly horrifying sight. <#/>As I stared at them dumbfounded, Joe coughed. <#/>This brought me back to reality and I hastily pulled them in, locked the door and leaned against it as if to ensure that Lucy's husband did not enter.

\par <#/>"Please, tell Baba Anne not to come out of the bedroom," Lucy pleaded. <#/>I nodded understandingly and rushed to the bedroom to pass on the message.
\par <#/>"Don't come out! <#/>Lucy is nude!" I shouted as I looked for a dress that could fit her.
\par <#/>"What?
" Joe asked perplexed as if he did not know that Jared was capable of doing anything when he was angry. <#/>I did not answer him. <#/>I dashed out of the bedroom with a light-blue free-size dress for Lucy. <#/>This was the only dress that could fit her si
nce she was a little bigger than me. <#/>As she painfully struggled to slip it on, I looked for some warm clothing for her daughter and helped the little girl to dress.
\par <#/>I was preparing to light the gas cooker to warm some water for first aid when I reme
mbered that the gas had run out earlier that evening. <#/>I quickly turned to the paraffin stove. <#/>But just then I remembered that I had kept a thermos flask full of hot water for use the following morning. <#/>I took some of this water, poured it into
 a basin and carefully cleaned Lucy's face. <#/>I massaged it gently as she was pointing out the most painful areas. <#/>I applied some liniment to the affected areas. <#/>I cleaned her daughter too.
\par <#/>All this while, Lucy had been sobbing quietly, her ch
est heaving up and down. <#/>When I prepared some coffee for her, she refused to take it and sat there cursing her fate in low tones. <#/>I tried to console her but it seemed that this time she had suffered more than ever before. <#/>I could understand th
e
 anguish, strain and the feeling of helplessness she was experiencing. <#/>This was not the first time Jared had battered Lucy. <#/>Apart from coming home drunk and disturbing the whole neighbourhood with his shouting, he fought over prostitutes, went in 
a
nd out of police cells for drinking traditional liquor and quarrelled with Lucy for `befriending men indiscriminately'. <#/>He would repeatedly beat her up and then disappear for weeks. <#/>It did not come as a surprise this time to see Lucy really broken
 down.
\par <#/>"Lucy," I addressed her.
\par <#/>"Yeeee-ee-s," she whispered reluctantly with a lot of pain both on her body and in her thoughts.
\par <#/>"What happened this time?"
\par <#/>There was no answer, either because her voice failed her or she thought the question needed no answer.
\par <#/>"Lucy," I called again.
\par <#/>There was now no response from her.
\par <#/>"There is a very close friend of mine who went through a myriad of traumatic experience like yours," I continued. <#/>"There was no week that passed without her recei
ving a thorough beating from her husband." Lucy looked up with interest, struggling to open her swollen eye.
\par <#/>"During one of their fights, she lost two of her upper teeth. <#/>This was the worst of her experiences. <#/>But surprisingly, they later made up and struggled on with their life together," I concluded.
\par <#/>On hearing this, Lucy brightened up a bit but soon started sobbing again. <#/>I did not try to stop her. <#/>I took her daughter who was already asleep on her lap to my children's bedroom. <#/>When I came back, she had stopped sobbing.
\par <#/>It seemed like she wanted to say something but did not know how to begin. <#/>She shifted in her seat but this made her groan painfully. <#/>Her knees were beginning to swell so I gave her the liniment to apply on them.
\par <#/>"Mama Anne," she started in a shaky but determined voice. <#/>"I - I have never told you this before. <#/>My parents separated and eventually divorced when I was still very young," she said.
\par <#/>"Hm-Hm-Hm-" I nodded encouragingly.
\par <#/>"I gr
ew up in the cruel hands of a stepmother," she continued. <#/>"My father was very loving but he was not with us most of the time. <#/>I know very well what it means to be discriminated against in one's own home! <#/>I was harassed and beaten for no reason
. <#/>I went to school only when my stepmother wished. <#/>I almost starved! <#/>Hunger would lead me into stealing and as a result I would be thoroughly beaten."
\par <#/>"Poor thing!" I responded.
\par <#/>"When I was sixteen and just about to complete my second ye
ar in high school, I met Jared. <#/>He was a very charming and handsome young man - a teacher then. <#/>I was attracted to him. <#/>I saw in this man a saviour. <#/>He was gentle and talked to me lovingly. <#/>I saw in this man a solution to all my proble
ms. <#/>I believed that Jared was all I needed in the world. <#/>I do not think any amount of pressure would have pulled me away from him," Lucy paused to cough and groaned with the effort. <#/>I just watched her, not wanting to interrupt.
\par <#/>"Before I knew what was going on, I was pregnant," she said.
\par <#/>"What was your parents' reaction?" I asked.
\par <#/>"My father was mad with me. <#/>He went wild like a wounded buffalo! <#/>He raged with hostility. <#/>I never knew I could survive the beating he gave me. <
#/>He forced Jared to marry me and threatened to sue him if he refused to do so. <#/>For fear of what might befall him, he married me. <#/>I felt overjoyed.
\par <#/>"One year after our marriage, Jared married Winnie as a second wife. <#/>She was a university u
ndergraduate. <#/>I hung on despite the pressure exerted on me because polygamy was not strange to me. <#/>Soon after she graduated and got a job, she left Jared because of his cruelty.
\par <#/>"One bright afternoon, Jared took me by surprise when after leaving the house, he returned shortly with several of his male colleagues. <#/>He started shouting at me to leave his house, accusing me of being a whore.
\par <#/>"His colleagues were surprised when he rushed into our bedroom and as fast as lightning emerged with a
 heap of clothes. <#/>He started hurling them outside. <#/>My underclothes were displayed. <#/>Oh how embarrassing it was! <#/>I did not know where to look. <#/>They begged him to stop but he refused. <#/>Embarrassed and disgusted, they walked away in pro
test."
\par <#/>"What were your feelings towards him after that?" I asked curiously.
\par <#/>"I still loved him," she responded calmly and went on. <#/>"I remember when one evening after this incident, he roughed
 me up. <#/>That was three years ago. <#/>He was drunk. <#/>On entering the house, he went straight for the kitchen knife. <#/>I had not the slightest idea why he was so furious. <#/>To ensure that I did not run away, he locked all the doors. <#/>He heade
d for me. <#/>I dodged. <#/>He chased me all over the house until he pinned me into }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <+_article>}{\v\fs24\lang2057  }{\fs24\lang2057 corner . <#/>He grinned. <#/>`Yes you thought you were clever,' he bellowed triumphantly.
\par <#/>"I struggled but could not free myself. <#/>He prepared to thrust t
he knife into me. <#/>I was about to scream when he slipped over a piece of ripe banana our daughter had dropped on the floor. <#/>He fell down with a big thud! <#/>I took that chance to pick up the knife and hurled it out of the window. <#/>I ran to the 
b
athroom and locked myself in. <#/>The fact that I had escaped infuriated him so much that he cursed and called me names. <#/>He kicked and violently banged the bathroom door. <#/>Thank God the door never gave way otherwise I do not think I would have live
d to tell this story.
\par <#/>"Mad with anger, Jared gave up. <#/>He collapsed on the floor. <#/>It did not take ten minutes before he started snoring. <#/>I stealthily opened the door and there he was! <#/>Crumpled in a heap on the floor near the bathroom door
. <#/>I looked at him lying there. <#/>I was filled with pity and love for him. <#/>I remembered our early days of courtship and felt nostalgic. <#/>I tried to carry him to the bedroom but he was too heavy for me. <#/>I decided to take off his shoes and c
over him with a blanket. <#/>The following morning, he behaved as if nothing had happened."
\par <#/>"I don't understand why you have hung on," I interrupted, realising that Lucy was determined to pour out all her heart to me.
\par <#/>She continued as if she had not
 heard me, "As if what he had done to me so far was not enough, one afternoon when I came home from the market, he roughly got hold of me, pinned me down and snarled at me, `Why did you take this long at the market? <#/>What were you doing? <#/>How many m
e
n did you sleep with?' He did not give me time to answer him. <#/>He hit me so hard on the head that I passed out. <#/>When I came to I found myself in the bathroom with Jared holding me. <#/>I was not able to struggle with him but I vividly remember what
 he did to me."
\par <#/>Lucy hesitated a bit. <#/>I encouraged her to continue.
\par <#/>"He ... <#/>he pulled my clothing up to my chest. <#/>He removed my underwear - everything. <#/>In his left hand, he had a torch. <X_>}{\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>I could not guess what he was up to. <#
/>To my horror and shame, he examined me! <#/>This he did to check whether I had actually slept with a man or not. <#/>I have never felt so humiliated in my life," Lucy concluded.
\par <#/>"How does he treat your children?" I asked, shaken.
\par <#/>"He is very loving to them," she replied.
\par <#/>"Then what could be his problem?" I wondered aloud.
\par <#/>I suggested that she starts some kind of business so that she could contribute to the family finances.
\par <#/>"Supposing I gave you some small capital to help you start?" I offered.
\par <#/>Lucy was such a strong-willed, strong-hearted woman that it took me time to convince her to accept money from me. <#/>She eventually accepted and I knew she would succeed in whatever she ventured to do.
\par <#/>"I would like to request something," she started.
\par <#/>"Yes, please."
\par <#/>"Why don't you help me to keep some of my profits?" she said, adding, "I have done some business before and I was unable to save anything because Jared asked for the money every day. <#/>I want you to keep it a secret. 
<#/>If he knows about it, we shall both be in trouble."
\par <#/>I found Lucy's request quite risky but I accepted to }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&/>idiom}{\v\fs24\lang2057  help her.
\par <#/>We sat silently for a while, each person lost in her thoughts. <#/>Lucy suddenly looked at me, and asked, "What do you think about divorce?"
\par <#/>This was the last question I expected from Lucy. <#/>She had all along shown great determination to hang on to her marriage. <#/>I was aware that my opinion on divorce might influence her, so I quickly threw the question back to h
er," What do you think about it yourself?"
\par <#/>She hesitated a little and then said, "I personally have hated anything to do with divorce. <#/>I shudder at the thought of it. <#/>My biggest wish in life has been to cling to my marriage for the sake of my c
hildren. <#/>I have sworn never to divorce. <#/>It painfully reminds me of my suffering as a child. <#/>I do not want my children to suffer as I did."
\par <#/>After that fateful night, Lucy's life returned to normal and she even began to look around for some a
ctivity that could generate income as we had discussed. <#/>But before she could get started, she received a letter inviting her to join a teacher training college. <#/>As she told me later, she had applied several times without success but she had never 
given up.
\par <#/>Not very surprisingly, her husband was not very keen on her going away to college but she was determined not to lose this opportunity. <#/>Her father assisted her with all the financial requirements and she soon went to the college, leaving Ja
red with their two children.
\par <#/>One day, while she was at college, their son, Peter, was taken very ill with fever. <#/>Jared was out watching a football match. <#/>When I was informed about it, I decided to take him to hospital. <#/>When Jared arrived an
d was told what had happened, he immediately followed us to the hospital. <#/>He met us on our way back. <#/>I clearly saw that he was very grateful for what I had done.
\par <#/>"Oh! Mama Anne, I don't know how to thank you! <#/>When I left the house early thi
s afternoon this boy was fine!" he said with appreciation as he took his son in his arms. <#/>When we reached his house, I gave him his child's medicine and told him I would drop in later to check on his progress.
\par <#/>That evening I went back to check on Peter and was happy to find him playing. <#/>Jared offered me a seat.
\par <#/>"Mama Anne," he addressed me.
\par <#/>"Yes!" I responded.
\par <#/>"I have always wanted to complain to you about your friend, Lucy."
\par <#/>"I see," I answered, not knowing what else to say.
\par <#/>I saw this as the golden chance I had wished to have so that I could ask him why they fought so often.
\par <#/>"Your friend is a very bad woman," he continued. <#/>"Her mother was divorced because she was loose. <#/>All her stepsisters are not properly mar
ried. <#/>They work as bar-maids. <#/>I just have no confidence in Lucy. <#/>She is like all of them! <#/>I had hardly known her well when I was forced to marry her," he said with a tone of bitterness.
\par <#/>"Is it ...?" <#/>I did not complete my question because one of his neighbours walked in to check on Peter too.
\par <#/>Jared repeated many more thanks to me and I excused myself because it was getting late. <#/>I walked to my house with a better understanding of Jared now that I knew that he had never seen Lu
cy as a friend; he had always seen her family and her background.
\par <#/>I later told my husband what Jared had told me. <#/>He was not impressed. <#/>This left me disappointed. <#/>After an interval of silence, my husband told me how Jared had been treated b
y his father when he was growing up. <#/>The father was not bothered about the family's welfare. <#/>In school Jared had a very rough time and would have dropped out had it not been for the chief who authorised that the fees be paid by his father's employ
er. <#/>He was a very bitter student throughout his school days. <#/>I knew that Jared needed professional help.</X>
\par }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Namai, Grace ' The Spider's Web' From E. Nzioki/W. Kabira/M. Karega (1992) }{\b\i\v\fs24\lang2057 They've Destroyed The Temple}{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 , Longman Kenya, pp. 63- 67 }{\b\v\fs24\lang2057 </&>}{\b\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par }}