{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff47\deflang1033\deflangfe1031{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}
{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Tms Rmn;}{\f9\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv;}{\f10\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Serif;}
{\f11\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Sans Serif;}{\f12\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}New York;}{\f13\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}System;}
{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f15\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f16\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Marlett;}
{\f17\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 04020705040a02060702}Algerian;}{\f18\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0704030504030204}Arial Rounded MT Bold;}{\f19\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 04030b070d0b02020403}Braggadocio;}
{\f20\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0903060703020204}Britannic Bold;}{\f21\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 03060802040406070304}Brush Script MT;}{\f22\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0502020202020204}Century Gothic;}
{\f23\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 04020805060202030203}Colonna MT;}{\f24\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 04020505020e03040504}Desdemona;}{\f25\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 0204060206030a020304}Footlight MT Light;}
{\f26\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 040307050d0c02020703}Kino MT;}{\f27\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020a0a07050505020404}Wide Latin;}{\f28\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 03020802060602070202}Matura MT Script Capitals;}
{\f29\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 040506030a0602020202}Playbill;}{\f30\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040602050305030304}Book Antiqua;}{\f31\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Verdana;}
{\f32\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05030102010509060703}Webdings;}{\f33\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b7200000000000000}Ottawa;}{\f34\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 03030702030607090b03}ShelleyAllegro BT;}
{\f35\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02050604050505020204}Bookman Old Style;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}{\f37\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 01010601010101010101}Monotype Sorts;}
{\f38\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 030f0702030302020204}Comic Sans MS;}{\f39\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0a04020102020204}Arial Black;}{\f40\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0706040902060204}Haettenschweiler;}
{\f41\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0506020202030204}Arial Narrow;}{\f42\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020404030301010803}Garamond;}{\f43\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}MS Outlook;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Bookshelf Symbol 3;}{\f45\fswiss\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 050b0604020202020204}Bookshelf Symbol 4;}{\f46\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05010101010101010101}Bookshelf Symbol 5;}
{\f47\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}CG Times (W1){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f138\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f139\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f141\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}
{\f142\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f143\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f256\fscript\fcharset162\fprq2 ShelleyAllegro BT Tur;}{\f258\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Bookman Old Style CE;}
{\f259\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Bookman Old Style Cyr;}{\f261\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Bookman Old Style Greek;}{\f262\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Bookman Old Style Tur;}{\f263\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Bookman Old Style Baltic;}
{\f264\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f265\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}{\f268\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}{\f269\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}
{\f282\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Black CE;}{\f283\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Black Cyr;}{\f285\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Black Greek;}{\f286\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Black Tur;}{\f287\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Black Baltic;}
{\f294\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Narrow CE;}{\f295\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Narrow Cyr;}{\f297\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Narrow Greek;}{\f298\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Narrow Tur;}{\f299\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Narrow Baltic;}
{\f300\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Garamond CE;}{\f301\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Garamond Cyr;}{\f303\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Garamond Greek;}{\f304\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Garamond Tur;}{\f305\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Garamond Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 \sbasedon0 \snext0 
heading 1;}{\s2\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i\v\f47\lang2057 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f47 \sbasedon0 \snext15 stamdard;}{\s16\li100\ri6364\nowidctlpar
\tx100\tqr\tx363\adjustright \f47\fs20 \snext16 OmniPage #1;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tx100\tqr\tx5911\adjustright \f47\fs20 \snext17 OmniPage #2;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\tx100\tqr\tx3230\adjustright \f47\fs20 \snext18 OmniPage #3;}{\s19\nowidctlpar
\tx100\tqr\tx1693\adjustright \f47\fs20 \snext19 OmniPage #4;}{\s20\qj\nowidctlpar\tx100\tqr\tx6627\adjustright \f47\fs20 \snext20 OmniPage #5;}{\s21\qj\nowidctlpar\tx130\tqr\tx6623\adjustright \f47\fs20 \snext21 OmniPage #6;}{
\s22\qj\li100\ri91\nowidctlpar\tx100\tqr\tx6636\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext22 OmniPage #257;}{\s23\qc\nowidctlpar\tx100\tqr\tx6491\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext23 OmniPage #258;}{\s24\qj\nowidctlpar\tx100\tqr\tx6618\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext24 
OmniPage #259;}{\s25\qj\nowidctlpar\tx112\tqr\tx6637\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext25 OmniPage #260;}{\s26\qj\nowidctlpar\tx126\tqr\tx6649\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext26 OmniPage #261;}{\s27\qj\nowidctlpar\tx100\tqr\tx6620\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext27 
OmniPage #262;}{\s28\qj\nowidctlpar\tx105\tqr\tx6637\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext28 OmniPage #263;}{\s29\qj\nowidctlpar\tx111\tqr\tx6651\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext29 OmniPage #264;}{\s30\qj\nowidctlpar\tx133\tqr\tx6637\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext30 
OmniPage #265;}{\s31\qj\nowidctlpar\tx136\tqr\tx6659\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext31 OmniPage #266;}{\s32\li100\ri5472\nowidctlpar\tx100\tx150\tx576\tqr\tx1255\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext32 OmniPage #513;}{\s33\nowidctlpar\tx100\tx150\adjustright 
\f47\fs19 \snext33 OmniPage #514;}{\s34\nowidctlpar\tx100\tx150\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext34 OmniPage #515;}{\s35\nowidctlpar\tx100\tx150\tx486\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext35 OmniPage #516;}{\s36\li100\ri732\nowidctlpar\tx100\tqr\tx5995\adjustright 
\f47\fs19 \snext36 OmniPage #769;}{\s37\qj\nowidctlpar\tx100\tqr\tx6624\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext37 OmniPage #770;}{\s38\qj\nowidctlpar\tx100\tqr\tx6621\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext38 OmniPage #771;}{\s39\qj\nowidctlpar\tx123\tqr\tx6622\adjustright 
\f47\fs19 \snext39 OmniPage #772;}{\s40\qj\nowidctlpar\tx117\tqr\tx6643\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext40 OmniPage #773;}{\s41\qj\nowidctlpar\tx102\tqr\tx6610\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext41 OmniPage #774;}{\s42\qj\nowidctlpar\tx100\tqr\tx6616\adjustright 
\f47\fs19 \snext42 OmniPage #775;}{\s43\qj\nowidctlpar\tx100\tqr\tx6616\adjustright \f47\fs19 \snext43 OmniPage #776;}{\s44\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 \sbasedon0 \snext44 Body Text;}{\s45\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \b\v\lang2057 
\sbasedon0 \snext45 Body Text 2;}}{\info{\title 3}{\author Ettle}{\operator Ettle}{\creatim\yr2000\mo8\dy14\hr11\min37}{\revtim\yr2000\mo8\dy14\hr12\min27}{\version6}{\edmins0}{\nofpages62}{\nofwords40362}{\nofchars201811}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws282535}
{\vern73}}\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz0\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprstsp\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\hyphcaps0\hyphconsec28257\viewkind4\viewscale116\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd 
\psz9\sbknone\linex0\headery0\footery0\colsx709\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {
\f0 W2A031K
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\f0\fs24\lang2057 <I> <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Women in soil and water conservation projects: An assessment}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Introduction}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{The weaknesses of centre-periphery planning paralleling an urban-rural division was heavily criticized in the literature of the second d
evelopment plan period. <#/>This approach to development planning is a legacy of colonialism. <#/>Decisions were made at the project headquarters usually in Nairobi and passed for adoption and implementation to the periphery which was assumed to be compos
e
d predominantly of a male rural peasant farming population. <#/>With Independence, efforts have been made to shift decision-making to the large population who are the targets of development programmes. <#/>Initial efforts were reflected in the self-help d
e
velopment policy adopted in the second decade of Independence. <#/>The latest effort is the District Focus Strategy for Rural Development. <#/>These efforts are consistent with World Bank concerns expressed in their recent report, which argues that Africa
n governments can only attain sustainable economic growth with equity in the next century through channelling the energies of the population at large, and ensuring that ordinary people participate in designing and implementing development programmes.

\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<#/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 Th
is chapter evaluates the Mutomo Soil and Water Conservation Programme in Kitui District in the light of this concern and demonstrates that the top-to-bottom development approach has not been eliminated. <#/>The only factor in the development planning equa
t
ion that has changed is the target population. <#/>Most males have migrated to areas outside Mutomo Division. <#/>Most of the peasant population who are also the target of rural development programmes are, consequently, women. <#/>This study was conducted
 
in Mutomo Division in 1987. <#/>The information was gathered during two visits by the author. <#/>Information was collected through in-depth interviews and observations of on-going activities. <#/>The respondents included programme personnel, farmers, loc
al leaders, women's group members and leaders and }{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 mwethya }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 group members and leaders. <#/>The field information was supplemented by secondary data from previous studies and from programme documents.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Mutomo Soil and Water Conservation Programme}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{
Mutomo Soil and Water Conservation Programme covers the southern division of Kitui District in Eastern Province. <#/>The division includes the locations of Ikanga, Kanziko, Ikutha, Mutha, Voo, Athi and Mutomo. <#/>The programme covers part of the arid a
nd semi-arid lands (ASAL) area of Kenya, which the government in its Fourth Development Plan (1980-84) gave high priority for development. <#/>The programme was planned in 1982 with a five-year perspective, is funded by the Danish International Developmen
t Agency (DANIDA) and mainly manned by technical officers from the Ministry of Agriculture.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<#/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 Mutomo Soil and Water Conservation Programme is linked to government administration. <#/>At the programme headquarters in Nairobi is a steering committee whose c
hairman is the head of the Local Resource and Development Division of the Ministry of Agriculture. <#/>The committee has representation from the Treasury, the Farm Management Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Livestock, the Ministry
 
of Culture and Social Services, the Office of the President, the Danish Mission in Nairobi and the programme staff consisting of the Kenyan programme manager and the Danish programme co-ordinator. <#/>The Steering Committee meets twice a year and makes pr
ogramme decisions which are then communicated to the programme staff.
\par <#/>At the field level (in the Mutomo office, within the division) the programme is manned by the Ministry of Agriculture technical staff. <#/>The hierarchy of the programme corresponds to the administrative structure of Kitui southern division. <#/>At th
e
 division level the programme is headed by the manager who is also the Divisional Agricultural Extension Officer. <#/>He is responsible for all the programme management activities. <#/>His counterpart is the Danish programme co-ordinator. <#/>These two of
ficers represent the programme at the District Development Committee. <#/>At the next lower level are the component parts of the programme: The extension section, the soil con\-
servation section, the water section and the survey section. <#/>These sections h
ave heads who represent the programme at the Division Development Committee. <#/>At the locational level are programme offices headed by the locational agricultural extension officers who report to the divisional heads. <#/>At the sublocational levels are
 the agricultural technical assistants who report to the locational offices.
\par <#/>The programme manager and the Danish co-ordinator attend the District Development Committee where decisions are made on programme projects. <#/>Before the end of each year, the
 programme head office in Mutomo communicates to the locational development committees on the numbers and types of projects which will be undertaken. <#/>The locational development committees apportion the projects among the sublocations, and the sublocat
ion development committees recommend where to situate the projects.
\par <#/>One main objective of the programme is to train the local population to implement soil conservation measures and improved agricultural techniques. <#/>This emerged out of recognition th
at in the programme area, the soil seals easily; this leads to diminished infiltration and water run-off. <#/>Soil erosion combined with poor rainfall result in poor agricultural production. <#/>Soil conservation measures on land include layout and constr
u
ction of terraces on steep slopes, contour ploughing on land with small slopes, layout and construction of cut-off drains and artificial waterways in farmlands and <-/embarkments> with grasses. <#/>Soil conservation on grazing land includes rehabilitation
 
of eroded pastures through reseeding/replanting with grasses and fodder trees and/or fencing; contour ploughing on steep slopes; gully control measures such as diversion ditches, vegetation, wood/stone materials or gabions; fencing to keep cattle from gul
l
ies. <#/>Improved agricultural techniques include: contour ploughing and cropping to prevent erosion and conserve the moisture; loosening of the soils before the start of the rains; keeping weeds down to avoid competition with crops; and introduction of p
roper and timely tillage methods.
\par <#/>A second major component of the programme is conservation and supply of water to the population in Mutomo Division. <#/>The geological nature of the area does not allow large-scale exploitation of the main water sources
. <#/>The run-off water is, however, stored in surface or sub-surface sources by means of water conservation techniques. <#/>The most commonly used measures include sub-surface dams, earth dams, shallow wells and water tanks.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{The overall objective of t
he programme is improvement of the resource base for production and improved living conditions of the population of the surrounding communities. <#/>The programme trains the local population in implementation of soil and water conservation measures and im
proved agricultural techniques. <#/>The programme depends on local input of free labour. <#/>To ensure initial and continued local involvement, the programme has sometimes used incentives.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Women's activities}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/><ea/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 Mwethya }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 groups are based on
 the concept of mutual assistance or self-help. <#/>Traditionally, members of the community who had more work than they could cope with requested assistance from other members of the same community. <#/>Time was set aside for this activity, and depending 
o
n the type of work involved, groups composed of only men or only women or both men and women, were brought together for the work. <#/>These were not permanently organized units but a way of mobilizing community labour to perform certain individual and hou
sehold activities.
\par <#/>Today, the concept of <ea/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 mwethya }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
has been broadened. <#/>These groups are self-help and form around a common need. <#/>Such activities may be initiated by group members themselves or as a response to local administration efforts to 
mobilize labour to address a community need. <#/>In response to Mutomo programme's requirement for community labour, many <ea/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 mwethya }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
groups have been formed. <#/>Others have formed with the sole purpose of <-/benefitting> from the programme's assistance which is mainly channelled through groups. <#/><ea/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 Mwethya }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
groups have undertaken soil and water conservation and farming activities. 
\par <#/><ea/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 Mwethya }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 groups are registered as self-help organizations with the Ministry of Culture and Social Services. <#/>
The conditions for group membership vary and include membership of a particular community, beneficiaries of a particular project, friendship ties, kinship ties, religious ties or residence in a common administrative area. <#/>Participation in <ea/>}{
\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 mwethya }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
group activities is compulsory for members and absentees are charged a fine. <#/>These groups are large, with memberships of between 50 and 200 people. <#/>Members are both men and women, but the majority of the members are women. <#/>Most men in the divi
sion are engaged in wage labour while others have migrated out of the area in search of wage employment. 
\par <#/><ea/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 Mwethya }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 groups each have a committee composed of a chairperson (usually a man), a secretary, a treasurer and three to six committee members. <
#/>The committee members are elected through a democratic process. <#/>The committee in consultation with the members makes decisions concerning group activities. 
\par <#/><ea/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 Mwethya }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 group members contribute labour, money, livestock or materials for projects
. <#/>The amount of labour time contributed depends on the amount of work required by a project and its urgency. <#/>Members specify days of the week to be set aside for project work. <#/>The number of days varies between one and three. <#/>When attendanc
e is poor, the community and local leaders in charge of self-help activities use force and fines to induce attendance. 
\par <#/><ea/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 Mwethya }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 groups have been used in building schools, churches, health institutions and soil and water conservation work. <#/>The g
roups are provided with working tools to ensure that work is done. <#/>These implements also act as an incentive for members to participate in group work since they can be borrowed by members for use on their individual farms. <#/>Since <ea/>}{
\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 mwethya }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 group 
activities respond to community needs, members benefit from services and facilities provided by the completed projects. <#/>Some groups have farms from which produce is sold and the proceeds contributed to project activities. <#/><ea/>}{
\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 Mwethya }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 groups may also engage in income-generating activities, and the money is used on self-help projects. 
\par <#/>Women's groups form out of efforts to meet individual and groups needs. <#/>Most of these groups form in order to assist friends and relatives in need. <#/>After t
he needs have been met, the people often continue to meet and organize themselves into a group. <#/>Other groups form because they have seen others <-/benefitting> through their organization. <#/>Mutomo Soil and Water Conservation Programme has actively e
n
couraged groups to form so that programme assistance can be channelled through them. <#/>Social development officers of the Ministry of Culture and Social Services also encourage groups to form. <#/>Women's groups are registered with the Ministry of Cultu
r
e and Social Services. <#/>An annual registration fee is paid. <#/>Membership is based on friendship, religion and kinship ties. <#/>Most members of these groups are women. <#/>The male members are very few and often elderly or very poor. <#/>The female m
embers are usually married and live within the community. <#/>The average age is 30 to 40 years. <#/>Educational attainment varies, and membership fees ranges between 2 to 10 Kshs. 
\par <#/>Women's groups each have a committee consisting of a chairlady, a secre
tary, a treasurer and two or three members. <#/>The chairlady is usually older, articulate and confident. <#/>The treasurer is usually older and trusted. <#/>The secretary is usually younger and has to be literate. <#/>The committee is voted into office d
emocratically and stays in office for one term of usually a year.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{
Women's groups mostly engage in farming activities since they are often lacking in other skills. <#/>They often have group farms from which they produce crops for sale. <#/>They also enga
ge in other farming activities for wages. <#/>The money is often saved in the group account. <#/>The members also participate in farming activities on each other's farms for nominal fees. <#/>This is done on a rotational basis. <#/>Women's group activitie
s
 are predominantly welfare functions. <#/>More recently, however, they are venturing into income-generating activities. <#/>Members contribute their labour, money and sometimes their livestock and materials. <#/>They in turn gain from the group. <#/>Apart
 
from the activities based on mutual assistance, members can also borrow group implements issued by the programme for use on their own farms. <#/>Improved seeds from the programme which are planted on group farms are harvested and shared among members for 
growing on individual farms.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 The impact of the programme in Mutomo Division}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>Programme performance in soil and water conservation activities reflects the target population's understanding, commitment and participation in soil and water conse
rvation activities. <#/>One major objective of Mutomo Soil and Water Conservation Programme is to train the local population in implementing soil and water conservation measures and improved agricultural techniques. <#/>This training took place among the 
programme staff and farmers within the division.
\par <X_>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>The soil conservation achievements showed a slow start in 1983, soon after the programme had started. <#/>Beginning in 1984, the programme gained momentum, peaking in 1985. <#/>The performance declined in
 1986 and was still low in 1987 (see Table 3.1). <#/>The general performance reflected an understanding and application of the soil conservation measures, at least in the short run. <#/>People in Mutomo Division were sufficiently motivated to form groups 
m
ainly for these activities. <#/>Soil and water conservation activities were performed on group farms on self-help bases, and by groups on members' farms on rotational basis. <#/>When interviewed, most farmers were able to list several soil conservation me
asures and improved agricultural techniques.
\par <#/>The production and distribution of seedlings for soil conservation on public and private sites has also been impressive. <#/>The performance showed an upward trend with an increase between 1983 and 1986 from 
16,555 to 116,824. <#/>Most of these seedlings are grown in the nurseries of Matinga and Voo (see Table 3.2).
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\v\f0 <#/>It is not clear whether people understand the long-term impact of soil conservation measures. <#/>A preliminary survey conducted in December 1
986 to January 1987 indicated that a number of group members did not understand soil conservation and its benefits. <#/>Previously, remarkable soil conservation achievements had been a result of project incentives which included the 2000-metre plough camp
a
igns, food for work, bee-keeping and cockerel exchange campaigns and other competitions. <#/>Performance appeared to be declining due to subsequent lack of motivation and poor co-ordination efforts. <#/>Doubts about farmers' proper understanding of the so
il conservation activities are reinforced by the fact that soil conservation structures are constructed but not maintained. <#/>Furthermore, seedlings are planted but die due to poor care and lack of appreciation of their importance.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>The second major co
mponent of Mutomo Soil and Water Conservation Programme is conservation and supply of water to the population in Mutomo Division. <#/>The responsibility for the construction of water structures lies with }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
mwethya }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 groups. <#/>These are mobilized by the 
local leaders and motivated by the need for water. <#/>The water section of the programme provides technical advice and supervises the construction of water structures. <#/>Following the catchment area approach, the programme started building water struct
ures in and around Mutomo town and location and subsequently spread out. <#/>Consequently Mutomo Location has more structures than any other location in the division (see Table 3.3).
\par <#/>This apparent imbalance also reflects the readiness of people in some 
locations to participate in water conservation activities more than others. <#/>Furthermore in locations where people live in scattered villages, it has been difficult to mobilize labour for water conservation activities and also to justify construction o
f
 water points. <#/>The water structures constructed have been led by water tanks followed by shallow wells and rock catchments (see Table 3.4). <#/>This reflects people's preferences, the programme's determination of the suitability of the location of a w
ater structure and a desire to achieve geographic balance.
\par <#/>These water structures harvest water from the environment and conserve it. <#/>The water is used for both human and animal consumption. <#/>A study conducted in 1987 found that more water is now
 available to the people and average consumption per family had gone up. <#/>The consumption per household is related to the distance to the water source, and more households are nearer to water sources today (Table 3.5)
\par <#/>Another measure of programme ac
hievements is the benefit of the programme activities for the target population as reflected in improved standard of living. <#/>There is a general appreciation of the activities of Mutomo Soil and Water Conservation Programme by the population of the div
ision. <#/>It is agreed that the programme has had an impact, with the areas closest to Mutomo town having the greatest benefit. <#/>The impact in the more distant locations has been less.
\par <#/>The direct benefits for population in the division have included
 access by farmers both individually and through groups to farm implements, including ploughs, hoes and forks. <#/>The agroforestry section of the programme has distributed many tree seedlings, grasses and seeds to farmers who have planted them on individ
u
al as well as group farms. <#/>Soil erosion measures have been taught and applied, and they have reduced erosion on public and group land. <#/>The programme has employed and trained agricultural staff and provided them with transportation. <#/>The extensi
o
n services have improved; more farmers are being reached and are learning new and improved methods of farming. <#/>With respect to water the programme has brought this nearer to the people, and the water lasts longer than before. <#/>Some crude indication
 
of this is the fact that water prices are today lower than before despite the increased population. <#/>This is an indication that water is now more available. <#/>Another direct benefit is the fact that today people in Mutomo Division are selling cereals
 
and legumes, especially around the Mutomo area. <#/>This is the area with the largest number of water points and the oldest water structures. <#/>The increased agricultural production could be an indication that today less time is spent on fetching water 
and more time is spent on farming activities. <#/>This, coupled with improved farming techniques and application of soil conservation measures, is leading to bigger harvests.
\par <#/>Indirect benefits include the increased self-help activities in the division. <#/>Many <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 mwethya }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
and women's groups are emerging and they are increasingly engaged in community development activities as well as in income-generating activities. <#/>Since more time is now spent on home hygiene and household activities such as cookin
g, the health of the population is improving.
\par <#/>The programme has also experienced some constraints. <#/>These constraints have their sources in several factors. <#/>The programme approach depends on free local labour from existing social organizations t
hat are mainly groups of women and does not utilize available male labour. <#/>A second factor is the targeting of women within groups to the exclusion of those who are economically, socially and organizationally marginalized. <#/>The decision-making proc
ess is centre-periphery, an approach that starts from a central area near the programme headquarters and spreads to more distant areas.
\par <#/>Among the Kamba of Kitui District, traditional work mainly involves agricultural production, animal husbandry and rou
tine housework. <#/>Labour is divided along sex lines. <#/>Men clear virgin land for cultivation, care for animals, look after pasture, engage in trading activities and construct fences, beehives and houses. <#/>Most male activities are occasional (constr
u
ction of houses) or seasonal (clearing land for cultivation). <#/>Thus men have more free time. <#/>Some men use part of this free time to engage in self-help community activities or casual employment for wages. <#/>Due to lack of employment opportunities
 
in the division, most men sit idle with nothing to do. <#/>In contrast, women in this division do most of the work in and around the home. <#/>They thatch houses, smear them, prepare food, fetch water and firewood, look after children and do most of the f
arming activities. <#/>Women also maintain hygienic conditions in and around the home.
\par <#/>More recently, with most men having migrated in search of urban employment, women have taken over work which was formerly men's. <#/>Today women also do construction and repair work, clearing of land for farming, looking after livestock and chasing wi
l
d animals and birds which destroy crops. <#/>With most children attending school, women receive little help in undertaking these activities. <#/>The activities of women are numerous and tie them to the home. <#/>Women have no free time and feel overburden
ed when required to additionally offer their free labour for soil and water conservation activities. <#/>In mobilizing local labour for programme activities, male labour has not been tapped yet in this division.
\par <#/>The programme approach of implementing so
il and water conservation activities through existing groups has accentuated the plight of members of the division who are socially, organizationally and economically marginalized. <#/>In Mutomo Division, these include widows who often own little or no la
n
d because the land left to them by their spouses has been snatched away by their relatives or neighbours. <#/>Widows therefore repeatedly cultivate poor exhausted land and get poor harvests. <#/>They have no access to hoes or oxen and personally perform a
l
l their farming activities using hoes. <#/>There is never enough food and children from such homes are often malnourished. <#/>Widows' efforts to participate in group activities are handicapped by their inability to pay membership fees. <#/>Other people w
h
o are marginalized include married women with drunken husbands; older wives in polygamous homes who are often abandoned or neglected and become very poor; divorced and unmarried women with dependent children. <#/>Disabled people are usually marginalized a
nd poor in a society that depends on physical labour for survival. <#/>The elderly particularly those not assisted by their children, or those who are barren tend to be poor and marginalized.
\par <#/>The structure and organization of the programme has also crea
ted some problems. <#/>Mutomo Soil and Water Conservation Programme applies the centre-periphery approach to development. <#/>Many important decisions are made at DANIDA headquarters and at the Ministry of Agriculture headquarters in Nairobi. <#/>The Stee
r
ing Committee, which has representation from the relevant ministries, is based in Nairobi and undertakes the annual planning of the project and then communicates the decisions to the programme staff. <#/>Other decisions are made by review missions unfamil
i
ar with the field situation and are consequently unrealistic and difficult to implement. <#/>Consistent with its centre-periphery strategy, the programme uses the existing local administrative structures in Kitui District. <#/>Thus programme decisions ori
g
inate from the District Development Committee and are passed on to the Division Development Committee and to the Location Development Committee and finally to the Sub-location Development Committee. <#/>There is no mechanism for decisions to originate fro
m
 the grassroots level and pass through the system. <#/>This means that the programme activities are planned without consulting and therefore incorporating farmers' input. <#/>Furthermore, most of the farmers are women because their husbands are deceased, 
h
ave migrated or are engaged in wage employment. <#/>Most of the programme officers are young men who have completed high school and have received agricultural training. <#/>Most of these officers do not come from the district and do not speak the local Ki
k
amba language. <#/>They can only communicate in English or Kiswahili to women farmers who do not understand either of these languages properly. <#/>This is accentuated by the technicality of soil and water conservation terminology which does not translate
 easily into local languages.
\par <#/>Furthermore, communication between these young male programme officers and the older women farmers is further handicapped by the age and sex differences. <#/>These problems, of which the farmers are well aware, are never di
scussed at district and provincial decision-making forums because farmers are not represented. <#/>The programme has not established a communication system to receive feedback.
\par <#/>By starting in Mutomo area with the aim of spreading outwards, the programme is }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <-/}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
benefitting> the population in this area much more than in the locations more distant from the programme headquarters. <#/>This is leading to inequality in access to programme benefits and is being encouraged by the programme.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Conclusions}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>Women in Mutomo Division do most of the work which includes child care, housework, farming and soil and water conservation. <#/>Women also perform most of the self-help activities through }{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 mwethya }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
groups or women's groups. <#/>Although the programme
 is aware of this and tries to be sensitive and consider the women's agricultural calendar, women are overburdened in contrast to the men in the division. <#/>Efforts must be made to mobilize and utilize men's labour to ease the burden on the women.

\par <#/>Th
e programme's approach has created new problems and accentuated previously existing ones. <#/>Using existing groups to implement programme work has accentuated the plight of marginal groups of people who do not benefit from the programme. <#/>Furthermore,
 
utilizing the Ministry of Agriculture extension system to implement programme activities has led to communication problems due to differences in sex, age and language between the programme officers and the farmers. <#/>This is accentuated by the centre-pe
r
iphery approach which has failed to utilize farmers' traditional knowledge of their environment in general and the conservation techniques in particular. <#/>The programme needs to involve the target population in the decision making process. <#/>Efforts 
must also be made to identify marginal groups of the target population and involve them in programme activities.
\par <#/>Despite these constraints, a consensus exists among the population in this division that the programme has made a positive impact and should
 continue with the more distant locations receiving more attention. <#/>Access to water is still considered to be a priority in the area. <#/>Relatively fewer people have water points near their homes and even fewer people have permanent water sources nea
r
 their homes. <#/>It is felt that more water points should be constructed with priority given to areas with fewer water points. <#/>This study found that there was a general desire for more flexibility in the policy with regard to location of water struct
ures in order to increase the local population's participation in the decision-making process.
\par <#/>Unanticipated effects of the programme are causing concern among the target population. <#/>Soil conservation measures and improved agricultural techniques on
 cultivated land have led to improved harvests. <#/>The farmers have expressed concern over their lack of knowledge on how to deal with bumper harvests, particularly the marketing and sale of surplus crop. <#/>The farmers also felt that they lacked the mo
n
ey to buy expensive pesticides to ensure good storage of their grain. <#/>To avoid losing most of their grain to pests, many farmers sold most of their crop cheaply at the local markets. <#/>Thus, improved agricultural production has not translated into s
elf-sufficiency in food}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 .</X>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Shanyisa Anota Khasiani (1992) \lquote Women in soil and water conservation projects: An assessment\rquote  In Shanyisa A. Khasiani (ed) }{\b\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Groundwork}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  ACTS Press, Nairobi, pp 27-39
</&>
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {W2A032K
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\f0\fs24\lang2057 <I> <h> }{<#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Women and the management of domestic energy}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Introduction}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>Firewood is widely used, particularly in Third World countries. <#/>In Kenya over 93 per cent of rural household uses are met by fuelwood and over 98 per cent of this energy is 
taken up by cooking. <#/>This implies that fuelwood is the traditional energy source in rural Kenya and it is more accessible to the rural population for logistical and economic reasons. <#/>The central role played by fuelwood seems to be the case elsewhe
r
e in Africa. <#/>In Tanzania, over 90 per cent of the people use wood for cooking and heating. <#/>It has also been observed that in some of the poorest countries, fuelwood accounts for more than 90 per cent of the total energy consumed for all purposes. 
<#/>Even in oil-rich Nigeria, fuelwood accounts for over 80 per cent of the total national energy consumption.}{\f0\fs24\lang2057\super 
\par <#/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 World Bank estimates show that fuelwood demand by the year 2000 will call for 19 million hectares of fuelwood plantations\emdash that is, 100 times m
ore than exists in Africa. <#/>In Kenya it is also estimated that more than 65 per cent of the national demand for wood will go unmet by the year 2000 if no major policy affecting the supply/demand configuration is undertaken very soon. <#/>It has been re
v
ealed that more than a hundred million people in some 26 countries come within the definition of acute scarcity. <#/>The most serious situations were identified in the arid and semi-arid regions south of the Sahara, the eastern and south-eastern parts of 
Africa, the mountain areas and islands of Africa and the densely populated areas of Central America and the Caribbean. <#/>The study concluded that nearly 13 million people were cutting firewood more rapidly than it was being renewed.
\par <#/>It is thus suggest
ed that tree energy is currently threatened by massive and rapid deforestation throughout the Third World. <#/>Studies however show that firewood usage has received very little planning attention. <#/>In Malawi only 15 per cent of the people plant trees f
o
r fuelwood and the most popular use is for building. <#/>In Panama, trees are mainly planted to provide fencing while in Central America and Nepal they are planted to provide fodder. <#/>In India trees are grown for the paper mills, while in Costa Rica th
ey are planted as windbreaks. <#/>Thus fuelwood is ranked lower than other needs though farmers expect to obtain fuel, as a by-product, from trees which they have planted for other purposes.
\par <#/>Wane has argued that it is poverty, inequality and lack of opp
ortunities which are to blame, and until these fundamental problems are tackled, the fuelwood crisis will never be permanently cured. <#/>In other words, the fuelwood problem will not disappear just from planting trees or by improving the design and execu
tion of <-/cookstoves>. <#/>This is because alternative <-/cookstoves> do not necessarily mean availability of and/or accessibility to resources. <#/>In Kakamega, Bradley }{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 et al. }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
found that all women said they faced difficulties in obtaining sufficient fuelw
ood for their daily needs, yet, comparatively, the place had a great quantity of trees on the farms. <#/>This only illustrates the simplicity of solving the fuelwood problem by merely encouraging farmers to plant trees.
\par <#/>Both legal and cultural ownershi
p and accessibility are responsible for the lack of sustained resources. <#/>Although the environment is potentially equipped with tree resources, these may disappear with time if the socioeconomic conditions at the household level are not favourable. <#/
>The variation in time is only slightly affected by the potential availability of trees so that those in well-watered areas may experience delay in scarcity as compared to those in arid regions.
\par <#/>However, it is impossible to abandon fuelwood for other al
ternatives because as a renewable resource wood is inexpensive relative to other fuel sources such as petroleum. <#/>The continued price escalation of imported and/or world fossil fuels and the large amount of capital necessary to build hydroelectric and 
g
eothermal plants hinder the transition from fuelwood to more efficient and cleaner forms of energy. <#/>Even if these forms of energy were made available, the economic situation at the household level would most likely prevent a majority of the people fro
m investing in the devices necessary for their use. <#/>Data on Kenyan rural households show that when wood is scarce, people tend to divert to the use of agricultural residues rather than purchased energy forms.
\par <#/>As tree resources are depleted, the cond
itions of life deteriorate. <#/>If the predictions that the continuing fuelwood demand shows no sign of being reversed is true, then there is every cause for alarm. <#/>This chapter therefore addresses those socio-economic circumstances that make it impos
s
ible for the direct consumers of firewood to utilize a given environment profitably. <#/>This is based on the understanding that whatever the ecological conditions, it is ultimately the socio-economic factors that greatly determine or influence the sustai
n
able management of fuel energy at the household level. <#/>To this extent, even the lack of trees is only a symptom of underlying socio-economic factors that tend to promote their absence. <#/>The main objective, therefore, is to isolate those conditions 
that have favoured movement from adequate provision of domestic fuel energy to an unprecedented fall in the same with specific reference to Bura Irrigation Settlement Scheme, Tana River District.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Site description and methodology}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{This study is based on a survey that was carried out in Bura Irrigation Settlement Scheme. <#/>The Bura project is situated about 10\'b0
 south of the Equator in the very marginal land on the west bank of the lower Tana River basin. <#/>The area has an annual rainfall of 400 mm with temperature ranging from 250 to 290 \'b0C.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<#/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
The scheme was established to settle unemployed, underemployed and landless rural families, to increase agricultural production and thereby reduce imports, to stimulate regional development, and to r
eclaim semi-arid land which previously had been bush and scrubland. <#/>Tenants were recruited from all over Kenya using quotas calculated on the basis of population employment opportunities and agricultural land availability. <#/>Initially women were not
 to be considered, even if they were heads of households. <#/>However, the selection criteria shifted to include both men and women.
\par <#/>Tenants started arriving in 1981, and by 1986 nearly 2,000 tenant families had been settled in ten villages, each consis
ting of 145-242 households. <#/>The mode of tenant house occupation and resultant patterns depended on such factors as block arrival at the scheme and continued adjustment due to intervillage migration.
\par <#/>Once in Bura, the tenants were issued with a one-
year lease renewable annually as long as the performance of the tenant family was accepted. <#/>Therefore the tenants are strictly licensees (Laws of Kenya 1862 Ch. 288), and on arrival, each is made familiar with the irrigation rules and signs an acknowl
e
dgement. <#/>The legal framework for management of irrigation schemes in Kenya provides the managers with nearly total control over the labour power of the tenants and their families, the right to enforce discipline, impose fines, confiscate property and 
cause their imprisonment and expulsion.
\par <#/>Each farmer has a plot of 1.3 hectares and out of this 0.05 hectares }{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 (<ea>/Maendeleo }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
plot) is located separately near the village and is used for vegetable growing for the family. <#/>The remaining 1.25 ha are all
ocated in two plots of 0.625 ha each, located in different cotton-planting blocks. <#/>The food crops grown include maize, cowpeas and groundnuts. <#/>These are allocated only half the area taken by cotton, and they are grown during the off-season period.
 <#/>A tenant in Bura is therefore expected to make maximum use of irrigation farming so as to yield an income high enough to repay farm inputs and support the family throughout the year.
\par <#/>Though the management had proposed that the cleared bush would serve as wood in the initial years of settlements, this disappeared almost immediately. <#/>The present situation indicates that even the unsettled (twelve) villages' cleared bush and vege
t
ation are long gone and the nearest signs of wood are more than 14 kms away from the ten occupied villages. <#/>When the tenants started arriving in 1982 the fuelwood supply was about one kilometre from their homes. <#/>By 1984 they were walking 5.6 kms, 
o
ne way, to fetch firewood, and in 1985 donkey carts started being used, mainly by the sellers, to fetch firewood. <#/>Meanwhile, a fuelwood plantation project was selected for funding under the Kenya-Finland Technical Co-operation Programme, but work neve
r began until April 1984. <#/>By September 1986 the Finnish International Development Agency (FINNIDA) had sponsored the construction of 309 fuelwood energy conservation stoves.
\par <#/>The scheme's accounts office was approached and they readily made available
 the farmers' cotton delivery Progress Report for 1986. <#/>Proportionate stratified random sampling was used to cover each of the ten occupied villages. <#/>A total of 186 questionnaires were administered and the household was the unit of analysis. <#/>T
he research instrument consisted of a standardized interviewer-administered questionnaire made up of both closed and open-ended questions. <#/>Both descriptive and inferential statistics were used to present and interpret findings.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 At the household level}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </h> 
\par <#/>Effects of wood scarcity have been discussed as they relate to soil degradation, reduced rainfall and interrupted ecological balances. <#/>This has largely ignored the relationship of people to wood scarcity. <#/>In Bura, a percentage of fir
ewood is collected by women (41), men (34.3), both (9.7), children (2.2) and labourers (12.8). <#/>Frequency of collection (percentage) is weekly (80.5), twice a week (14.3), thrice a week (2.3) and daily (1.5). <#/>In the search for firewood the tenants 
walk an average of 12.6 kms and the majority do a total of 16 kms.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{
Collecting firewood takes an average of seven hours per day and the majority of the people take 7-9 hours per day. <#/>This agrees with the World Bank report that firewood collecting is 
consuming more and more time as the scarcity increases. <#/>On the other hand, farmwork is allocated between 8 and 60 hours per week with an average of 53.6 hours. <#/>While farmwork seems to take precedence, it is observed that firewood takes a considera
b
le proportion of the weekly time, considering the fact that it is only a domestic chore. <#/>Domestic chores other than firewood collection take an average of two hours a day. <#/>This observation is similar to Perlov's (1984) finding that among the Sambu
ru, increased time allocation to fuelwood had led to the competition between wood requirements and agricultural production.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<#/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 The majority of the tenants (82.3 per cent) buy almost all the firewood they use compared to back home where 91.4 per cent got th
eir firewood from the bush, free of charge. <#/>Increasing commoditization of fuelwood means cutting the poorest segments of the population from access to fuelwood. <#/>In Bura the farmers spend an average of Kshs. 107.70 per month on firewood when it is 
m
ost scarce and Kshs. 85.60 per month when there is plenty. <#/>The problems experienced by the majority reveal that the fuelwood scarcity has brought about financial problems to an already strained domestic budget. <#/>It was observed that the tenants eve
n engage in borrowing money, much as they are aware of the consequences of having a debt.
\par <#/>In the tenants' views the fuelwood scarcity has forced them to alter values. <#/>In immediate fuelwood scarcity the farmers (percentage) reported doing without mea
ls (24.7), using lesser forms of energy (31.2) or cooking lighter meals (44.1). <#/>Researchers similarly observed that whenever there is a fuelwood scarcity the poor are forced to use lower forms of energy, alter diets or generally cut down on other need
s
. <#/>A significant (.05) association was observed between the number of meals cooked per day and what the tenants have to forgo so as to purchase firewood. <#/>The distributions indicated that the scarcity has forced the farmers to forgo hired farm labou
r, school fees, clothing and/or food purchases-the type of factors that contribute to national development and a better standard of living.
\par <#/>Domestic energy needs to be sustained through renewed growth, regulated utilization and/or use of alternative fue
ls. <#/>Whatever the choice, it is a function of economic ability, physical availability and socio-cultural orientation. <#/>There are certain socio-economic factors that constrain the Bura households from sustaining fuelwood supply as a domestic energy r
esource. <X_>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
<#/>Much as domestic energy is important and its scarcity is a social, economic and physical harassment to those who are expected to procure this resource (the majority of whom are women), the causes and solutions to such a scarcity are usually bey
ond the socio-economic means of women.}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <h> <#/>S}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 ocio-economic aspects of domestic fuel energy }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\v\f0 <#/>}{\v Socio-economic factors refer to those conditions and circumstances, other than physical features, that make it impossible for the tenant farmers to susta
in domestic fuel energy. <#/>The misunderstanding of this (socio-economic) complexity has resulted in the misleading opinion about the rural poor being opposed to innovation or being lethargic and wasteful. <#/>The absence of sustainable management refers
 to the lack of measures and methods that would otherwise conserve and control domestic fuel energy use. <#/>This could be through renewal, reduced consumption, efficient utilization and/or due to ignorance, negligence or compound inability.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v\fs24 <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Behaviour i
s directed by the way people define their common world, and this behaviour is patterned by their experiences. <#/>How the Bura tenant households choose to sustain domestic energy supply depends on their way of life and their adaptation to a specific envir
o
nment. <#/>Therefore, the lack of sustainable management of domestic fuelwood as revealed by the absence of renewed growth, regulated consumption and use of alternative fuels is due to the consumers' inability to adjust and adapt to changing conditions, o
nce learned technology and expectation are no longer relevant. <#/>This inability and the changing conditions could be physical, economic and/or social.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Renewed growth}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h> 
\par <#/>Tree planting is used here to indicate the people's ability and willing
ness to sustain wood resources. <#/>There was an observed reluctance by the tenants to participate in tree planting due to uncertainty about ownership of such property as land. <#/>This reluctance has since meant lack of sustained growth of trees. <#/>The
 majority of the tenants claimed to have planted twenty trees since their arrival in Bura, a figure that was found to be higher than the actual observable number of trees in the settled villages.
\par <#/>The farmers are leaseholders; and as many as 9l.9 per cen
t were of the opinion that a land title deed guarantees right over the land, such as ability to use the land as loan security alongside rights over everything else that can and might grow on it. <#/>In case of good farm yields, 40.8 per cent of the Bura t
e
nants said that they would use the money to buy land elsewhere, 26.9 per cent would pay school fees, 23.7 per cent would fulfil social expectations such as a wedding of a son, 6.4 per cent would invest in a donkey cart and 2.2 per cent would improve food 
purchases. <#/>This implies that insecurity of possessions dominates the tenant's decision at the expense of domestic fuelwood.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\v\f0 <#/>}{\v A significant (.05) association was observed between what the farmers feel about their being in Bura and their initiative to 
plant trees. <#/>It was suggested that those who can no longer see any prospects in Bura, either out of having tried and failed or due to continued frustration, no longer think of planting trees. <#/>Similarly in Haiti government claims over trees had neg
a
tive effects. <#/>The peasants saw trees as a threat which could even lead to expropriation of land, and rather than taking care of trees, the people wanted the trees to die. <#/>In circumstances of unanswered questions, certain resources are not sustaine
d, and the consumers, not having much authority, suffer the consequences of policy.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
It was observed that many (63.4 per cent) tenants would want their children to migrate out of Bura, and this feeling has curtailed their active participation in tree pla
nting. <#/>Therefore, for as long as the tenants' future in Bura is considered uncertain, they are not going to make much attempt at improving the environment, if tree planting is an accepted priority. <#/>Hoskins found that in the Sahel people stressed t
h
at unless they could have water, health care facilities, education for their children and income to keep their families together, it did not matter if they planted trees for the future. <#/>It was further observed that in Bura, those tenants who want thei
r
 children to stay, planted the first tree almost on arrival (eight years ago), while those who have been contemplating leaving, planted the earliest tree only four years ago. <#/>Generally the majority (71.6 per cent) of the tenants planted the first tree
 in Bura after about seven years of settlement. <#/>Only 1.2 per cent planted their first tree after one to two years of settlement.
\par <#/>It was further indicated that use of an approach incompatible with the people's shared values has constrained tree planting to the detriment of the domestic consumers\emdash 
women. <#/>This study found that 86.9 per cent of the respondents who had planted trees back home did it as individuals compared to 13.1 per cent who did it in a group. <#/>It is thus implied that the tenants 
cannot fully participate in tree planting whenever the communal approach is emphasized. <#/>Fergus has <-/urgued> that everybody's property is nobody's property to the extent that in nomadic areas, where no one feels a communal responsibility for conservi
n
g environmental cover, tree growing is problematic. <#/>In Bura, ownership emerges as the implicit explanation for the above choice. <#/>The individual approach is favoured because by design it ensures both availability of resources through personal effor
t
s and accessibility to the same through ownership. <#/>This contradicts Murray's study in the Dominican Republic and Honduras which revealed that government claim over trees and even those on the peasant's own land had succeeded in preserving and protecti
ng trees.}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057\super 
\par }{\v\fs24\lang2057 <h> <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Regulated utilization}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h> 
\par <#/>One would expect that motivated by fuelwood scarcity, consumers would actively engage in regulated consumption. <#/>However, in Bura, various socioeconomic factors were observed to restrain the women from regulated utilization of domestic fuel energy.

\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\v\f0 <#/>}{\v 
It was found that delayed adaptation to the Bura environmental limitation has given way to high consumption of a restricted energy resource. <#/>A considerable degree of association (.34395) significant at 5
 per cent risk was observed between length of stay in Bura and number of meals cooked per day. <#/>Unlike those who have been in Bura longest (13.9 per cent), the rest of the tenants indicated high consumption on a daily basis. <#/>This suggests that unli
ke Earl's observation in Nepal, availability does not seem to determine consumption habits. <#/>Instead, learned behaviour seems to be the guideline.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Tenant inability to satisfy more immediate needs has been a barrier to sustained energy utilization. <#
/>It was observed that in Bura the fuel problem is not given as much attention by the government as agriculture. <#/>Asked whom they tell about firewood problems, 43 per cent of the households told nobody and the rest told spouses, fuel dealers, the schem
e management or neighbours. <#/>On the other hand, farm problems have a more favourable outlet in that 93.5 per cent of the households told field assistants, 4.3 per cent told spouses and only 2.2 per cent told nobody.
\par <#/>Characteristics of high energy con
sumption imply that regulated utilization is necessarily crucial if a fuelwood scarcity is to be curtailed or avoided. <#/>The Bura tenants do not seem to have engaged in energy conservation at the household level. <#/>It was generally observed that the t
enants have not expressed domestic energy conservation knowledge in terms of sustained resources, use of energy saving devices and aggressive alteration of dietary habits and cooking methods.
\par <#/>A majority (86.0 per cent) use the three-stone open fire, 12.
9 per cent use the Lorena improved stove and 1.1 per cent use the ordinary charcoal stove. <#/>This suggests that their knowledge and/or practice of energy conservation methods are limited. <#/>In fact 61.8 per cent saw no disadvantage in the <ea/>}{
\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 jiko }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 they were using, suggesting that the majority of the women are unaware of the wasteful nature of the three-stone open fire\emdash 
a dominant cooking device. <#/>Literature attributes lack of practical energy conservation to poor incomes. <#/>Vidyarthi argues that la
ck of purchasing power (linked in part to lack of alternative sources of income) hinders the poor from investing in energy-saving devices.
\par <#/>It was observed that on average the tenants cook five food varieties, ranging from two to nine types. <#/>There w
as an observed competition between food quality and foods that consume less fuel, which however tend to be costly. <#/>The most popular foods were categorized as proteins (40.6 per cent) and carbohydrates (59.4 per cent). <#/>A breakdown indicated that 82
.8 per cent of the households cook maize and beans almost daily compared to only 10.8 per cent who cook rice only once a week. <#/>It is therefore apparent that economic ability has an influence on dietary patterns. <#/>Foley and Barnard observed}{
\v\f0\fs24\lang2057\super  }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 that in Ki
rinyaga fuelwood scarcity is caused by the cooking of high energy-consuming foods. <#/>Therefore non-availability of required foodstuffs and cultural upbringing intermingle to reduce the utilization of energy conservation measures for sustained supply.

\par <#/
>The decision on the number of meals to be cooked in a day was reported to be based on food costs (63.9 per cent) rather than fuel consumption (36.0 per cent). <#/>Therefore, even if trees were planted in plenty, without bettering the tenants incomes, the
re would still emerge a fuelwood scarcity. <#/>This tends to suggest that besides probable lack of conservation knowledge, the poor economic abilities of the tenants do not allow them to cook lighter foods.
\par <#/>The tenants stated that traditionally they use
d such materials as banana leaves, pumpkin leaves or cow dung (depending on origin), to cover boiling foods. <#/>However, these culturally prescribed ideas do not find expression in Bura because the materials are not available. <#/>Therefore, while the Bu
ra households are expected to alter their conservation methods, the alternative of purchasing <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 sufuria }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 lids is not economically viable. <#/>Findings show that 78 per cent do not have a <ea/>}{
\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 sufuria }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 lid but those (22 per cent) who do, have one to nine lids This implies that once financially able, households do conserve energy.
\par <#/>Only 16.1 per cent of the households have acquired the improved modern stove. <#/>Since construction knowledge of this imp
roved stove is provided free of charge by FINNIDA employees except for the labour required, the small proportion suggests that the tenants have not given energy conservation much thought in this respect. <#/>A cross-tabulation of modern stove adopters and
 
total months of fuel scarcity suggested that the majority of those who have adopted the modern stove do not face a fuelwood scarcity. <#/>Those households (66.7 per cent) who had not adopted the modern stove argued that it is because the stove uses a lot 
of firewood (suggesting the existence of limited knowledge or controversy); the stove requires some special size of wood (indicating that economic ability is a vital component); it is too slow (a form of preference); or they have no time to construct one.

\par <
#/>It was further observed that energy conservation receives little attention as compared to the use of a socially prestigious fuel. <#/>Responses as to what fuel they would prefer if it was free-of-charge indicated that only 25.9 per cent of the househol
d
s would go on using firewood. <#/>The rest (74.1 per cent) would want to use gas, electricity or charcoal. <#/>These choices were based on the argument that the preferred fuel is quicker (40.9 per cent), easy to use (46.8 per cent) or familiar (12.4 per c
e
nt). <#/>This indicates that convenience of use, social prestige and conformity receive preference over conservation of scarce resources. <#/>Stretched further, this observation points at meeting (elite) cultural expectations more than what the situation 
d
emands. <#/>A fairly strong (.36829) and significant (.10) degree of association was observed between fuel preference and what is actually used as alternative fuel whenever there is no firewood. <#/>Data indicated that the tenants do not make much use of 
alternative fuels that are of a lower rank, thus placing too much consumption stress on one form of energy. <#/>However, firewood will remain the most viable fuel for Bura tenants because of various limitations of higher forms of energy.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Alternative fuels}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>In a Kenyan setting, alternative fuels to firewood could be cow dung, agricultural residues, electricity, gas or charcoal. <#/>In Bura, agricultural residues, mainly cotton stalks, are prohibited for domestic use. <#/>This is bas
ed on the argument that if stalks are not burned in the fields, pests will spread. <#/>Maize in the scheme hardly grows to maturity and even then it is not enough to suffice as an alternative fuel. <#/>Cow dung would be just as expensive and as scarce as 
firewood because animals on the scheme are prohibited. <#/>Therefore, the Bura tenants are left with such alternatives as gas and electricity.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\v\f0 <#/>}{\v However, the tenants' socio-economic status is a practical limitation in their desire for higher forms of ener
gy, a would-be alternative to the fuelwood scarcity. <#/>Findings largely suggest that poverty at the household level makes it impossible for the Bura women to contain the fuelwood scarcity. <#/>This is based on the assumption that a household's inability
 to purchase domestic energy is a social force on the fuelwood scarcity (or any other scarcity).
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 All the settlers are tenant farmers and the cotton crop is the only source of income for the majority. <#/>The mean annual income is Kshs. <#/>4,806.40 and 
on average the tenants earn Kshs. 400 per month. <#/>Over and above the fact that these incomes are meagre, payment is also done once a year. <#/>This brings about problems of budgeting for a resource already too scarce. <#/>This study found that while th
e
 people are settled and expected to farm, their abilities in farmwork fail them. <#/>Family labour is predominant (62.8 per cent), suggesting that most people are not financially able to engage paid labour, a contributory factor to eventual poor incomes. 
<
#/>A cross-tabulation of farm labour and months of fuelwood scarcity indicated that those who are not able to engage paid labour are the same persons who face the highest number of fuel scarce months. <#/>This association was significant at 1 per cent ris
k.
\par <#/>A majority of the households depend on cotton earnings for subsistence, yet only 21.5 per cent of the tenants claimed to be satisfied with the size of their cotton plot. <#/>Similarly, 19.9 per cent and 19.4 per cent were comfortable with their maize
 and vegetable plots, respectively; 10.2 per cent had no vegetable plots, suggesting that they have to purchase whatever they consume, including maize whenever the crop fails. <#/>The tenants (71 .1 per cent) argued that they wanted bigger plots for bette
r
 incomes or for increasing family size (29.1 per cent). <#/>It is thus suggested that the majority of the households have inadequate incomes, and in view of their complaints the cotton income alone cannot possibly see a healthy family through the agricult
ural year without a heavy subsidy. <#/>Therefore, the purchase of basic needs, including cooking fuel, becomes problematic. <#/>What Foley and Barnard have attributed to restricted ownership of trees is really a question of economic ability.}{
\v\f0\fs24\lang2057\super 
\par <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Data showed
 that households with good cotton (.4680) and maize (.2869) incomes and also those who own land elsewhere (.3894) spend fewer hours collecting firewood. <#/>These coefficients suggest that those with fairly good incomes have engaged easier and quicker mea
n
s of transport, implying that the crisis magnitude at the household level actually depends on the farmers' financial ability to seek alternative means of transport of fuel. <#/>This observation does not agree with Castro's statement that it is <-/seasonal
ity> and ecological structure which combine to produce a situation where fuel wood scarcity is a greater hardship for some than others.
\par <#/>The use of commercial alternative forms of energy is not economically viable in Bura. <#/>Over 75 per cent of the hou
seholds have school-going children, and school fees take an average of Kshs. 1,038 per year. <#/>Besides 74.2 per cent of the farmers have other dependants living outside Bura to whom they give financial (89.2 per cent) or material (10.8 per cent) support
.
 <#/>Other than poor incomes only 11.8 per cent of the tenants have other sources of income; furthermore, only 4.3 per cent receive assistance from family members living elsewhere. <#/>It was thus observed that 93 per cent of the tenants borrow some money
 at least six times a year to the extent that those households with dependants were observed to face more months of fuel scarcity. <#/>This association was significant at 10 per cent risk.
\par <#/>Of the households, 98.4 per cent use firewood to cook their meal
s. <#/>The rest use agricultural residue or charcoal. <#/>The farmers argued that these are the fuels they can afford, are the ones available or they are what they have always known. <#/>It is implied that cost is a very important factor and a principal d
e
terrent measure in the tenants' attempts to opt for other forms of energy, which might otherwise be relatively available. <#/>Whenever the farmers are unable to secure enough firewood, 22.6 per cent use agricultural residues, paraffin, charcoal or cow dun
g as alternatives The rest (77.4 per cent) do not use any alternative fuel because, as they argued, they cannot afford higher forms of energy, and the lower forms of energy are not readily available.
\par <#/>The tenants' purchasing power is very low. <#/>Carts,
 a rather important tool for general transport and particularly that of firewood, are owned by only 3.8 per cent of the households. <#/>Similarly, donkeys are owned by 4.8 per cent of the people. <#/>These observations show that the tenants' access to fir
e
wood is differentially affected by ownership of the means of transport, an indicator of their socio-eonomic status and ability to purchase. <#/>Findings show that 68.9 per cent transport their firewood home on the back, head or shoulders; 15.6 per cent us
e
 bicycles, 5.9 per cent use donkey carts, 4.4 per cent use donkeys, 3.7 per cent use wooden wheel barrows and 1.5 per cent use public motor transport. <#/>The proportions are observed to reduce with improvement in the mode of transport, and the difference
s show that the majority of the people are poor, thus the varied accessibility to the fuelwood resource points.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Conclusion}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>The unprepared tenants have been expected to react reasonably to a fuelwood scarcity that had no precedent in their origins and in the context of restrained resources. <#/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Reasonably }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 is}{
\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 here used to refer to expecting the utilizers of fuelwood energy in Bura to participate in renewed growth by planting trees, to regulate consumption by conserving the fuel energy and/or u
se alternative fuels. <#/>However, the tenants, arriving in Bura, had been socialized in an environment vastly different from that of the Bura scheme. <#/>This has denied them an opportunity to immediately cope with the new ecology, given the limited reso
urces and a totally different socio-economic arrangement, particularly in the utilization of available resources.
\par <#/>The apparent lack of (interest in) trees is a symptom of underlying factors that explain why the tenants have not planted them. <#/>Uncerta
inty about property rights was observed as the explanation for lack of trees, even when firewood is an important component of the Bura households' needs. <#/>Tree planting is observed to be a recent phenomenon in Bura, and even then, time seems to have a 
n
egative effect. <#/>This tends to suggest that much as those who manage and utilize domestic energy are suffering, the general tenant community uses Bura as a base from which they can execute plans for a future outside the scheme's horizons. <#/>Therefore
, it is up to the scheme management to reformulate their regulations to make the farmers view Bura as a place to put 'roots down in' rather than some sort of 'transitory employment' which they can walk out of whenever things become rough.
\par <#/>The tenants ar
e aware of the usefulness and need for trees in Bura, but they consider them a future benefit; by not investing in them, they tell the world of their reluctance to stay on. <#/>This lack of confidence originates from the fact that they have no personal la
n
d, contrary to what they were familiar with. <#/>Therefore, suggesting that people plant trees without considering the compatibility of the tenure system with their beliefs does not ensure availability; the same does not guarantee those who actually need 
to utilize the fuelwood (women) accessibility to the same.
\par <#/>The (communal) approach being used to plant trees in Bura tends to reemphasize the fact that the farmers are not owners, to the detriment of the wood energy resource. <#/>The popular approach to
 tree planting was observed to be that which ensures and reinforces the people's values and beliefs. <#/>The tenants come together but for specific goals to the extent that membership in a women's group had a negative influence on tree planting. <#/>Howev
er, it is not the social and cultural practices that are a hindrance to tree planting but the contradictions that emerge when change takes place.
\par <#/>Regulated utilization has not been very successful in Bura. <#/>Households still consume relatively high am
ounts of fuelwood, and this was attributed to a rather slow adaptation to the new conditions following continued adherence to a cultural orientation that may have been based on relatively more available resources It is therefore suggested that secondary s
ocialization is desirable and crucial so as to effect cultural re-orientation.
\par <#/>Findings have shown that dietary habits and cooking patterns have contributed to the fuelwood scarcity. <#/>The majority of the households use the three-stone open fire, a high energy-consuming device. <#/>Besides, only a few households own <ea/>}{
\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 sufuria }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 lids or employ any other measures to conserve energy when boiling foods. <#/>Those tenants with knowledge of energy conservation measures have not fully utilized this because t
he devices are physically and/or financially unavailable. <#/>Therefore, the fact that households have not taken to alternative fuel should not be mistaken for cultural abhorrence or ignorance of their existence.
\par <#/>General poverty at the household level 
has made it impossible for the tenants to purchase alternative forms of energy. <#/>The cotton earnings are meagre, most tenants have no other source of income and their financial responsibilities are high. <#/>However, those who are able have bought donk
e
y carts to transport firewood. <#/>The majority of the tenants are poor and indebted, implying that buying firewood costs them a veritable fortune. <#/>Therefore while the farmers have the theoretical ability to appreciate and desire higher forms of energ
y, this is devoid of financial power.
\par <#/>There is need for cultural re-orientation so that domestic energy utilization patterns can reflect the supply. <#/>The tenant farmers need to understand that the fuelwood scarcity is far beyond the obvious observati
on that Bura is semi-arid. <#/>This could be achieved by increased extension contact and also by getting to know and understand people's preferences in areas related to cooking methods, dietary habits and general utilization of firewood. <#/>This knowledg
e could be disseminated through the chief's <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 baraza, }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
village level groupings or at the scheme's cultural show. <#/>This awareness should focus on households and not just women. <#/>This is because in the face of commoditization, sustainable supply and u
tilization of domestic fuel energy require more than the woman's physical efforts.
\par <#/>Tree planting, regulated consumption and use of alternative fuels should not be isolated, as they currently are, from the rest of the scheme activities. <#/>This is beca
use even ready solutions such as the improved stove are challenged on the basis of un-answered farm and tenure questions. <#/>It is therefore mandatory to give the tenants' off-spring a place in the scheme in terms of inheritance. <#/>In Africa, parents v
i
ew investments and the general future in terms of their children, so much so that whenever activities do not encompass their offspring, it kills the motivation to struggle on. <#/>Therefore, the feeling of tenancy needs to be done away with by letting the
 tenants feel that they are participants in their own development.
\par <#/>The scheme authorities need to make the tenants financially stable. <#/>This can be achieved by providing farmers with adequate irrigation water, bigger plots, ready pesticides and good 
prices. <#/>The same can be supplemented by allowing the farmers to take up new openings such as market stalls. <#/>This is of practical importance because the poor cannot change their ways without having workable alternatives. <#/>Therefore, what the Bur
a women need is sus\-tainable management of domestic fuel energy and ability to plan for and ser\-vice their energy needs.}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X>
\par </I>
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Mary Omosa (1992) \lquote Women and the management of domestic energy\rquote .
\par In Shanyisa A. <#/>Khasiani (ed) }{\b\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Groundwork}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  ACTS Press, Nairobi, pp. 41-54</&>
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {W2A033K
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\f0\fs24\lang2057 <I> <h> }{<#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Women's role in the supply of fuelwood}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Introduction}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>In the context of women and environment, women's role in the supply of fuelwood as a source of domestic energy is an example of the enormous responsi
bility shouldered by women on the domestic front, especially in rural areas. <#/>The scarcity of fuelwood supply sources and the distance to trek in searching for it have important consequences on family welfare, agricultural productivity and the immediat
e
 environment. <#/>Women carry the burden of fetching fuelwood (in most of the poor rural households in the developing countries) as part of the traditional role of housewife. <#/>Development has taken into account the woman's double role as the paid bread
winner and the unpaid manager of the household.
\par <#/>Fuelwood as a source of domestic energy
\par <#/>Energy demands of
 developing countries are likely to increase by more than 50 per cent in the next six years, thus increasing their share of global demand from 17 to 24 per cent. <#/>Developing countries make substantial use of non-commercial energy sources and the share 
i
s expected to decline as nations develop. <#/>The energy sector covers non-commercial primary energy sources (mainly fuelwoods) and commercial energy (petroleum, natural gas, hydroelectricity, coal and some geothermal sources). <#/>Renewables, such as sol
a
r energy, could become important especially in the remote inland areas. <#/>Inadequate and unreliable energy supplies have contributed to Africa's slow growth during the past three decades, and the increasing demand for household fuelwoods is leading to c
hronic deforestation.
\par <#/>One reason for worrying about deforestation is that it adds to the carbon in the earth's atmosphere. <#/>Growing trees lock up carbon; burning or rotting trees release it. <#/>So most schemes to stop global warming assume that defo
restation is halted or reversed. <#/>Population pressure and the need for fuelwood cause deforestation. <#/>Hence the environmental costs need to be taken into account in formulating energy strategies. <#/>Per capita consumption of fuelwood in developing 
c
ountries is of the order of 1 tonne of wood per year, with an additional 15 per cent being used in cottage industries, manufacturing and service sectors. <#/>Cooking accounts for over 50 per cent of household use; heating is the next most important as a t
h
ird of the consumption varying according to climatic conditions. <#/>Fuelwood is still probably the premier fuel in terms of actual number of consumers. <#/>As the world's population becomes more prosperous, there will be a switch away from fuelwood, firs
t
 to charcoal and then to other more convenient non-wood fuels. <#/>Much depends on the relative price (and convenience) of the competing fuels. <#/>However, this substitution does not occur in the subsistence sector unless they have exhausted local suppli
es of fuelwood, and then they are reduced to burning dung and various items of vegetable matter or moving house to areas better endowed with their basic requirements. <#/>This sector is characterized by shortages.
\par <#/>Fuelwood is the primary source of energ
y for almost one-half the world's population. <#/>According to the United Nations, the largest fuelwood producer is India, followed by Brazil, China, Indonesia, the United States and Nigeria. <#/>Most fuelwood is collected on a non-commercial basis for do
m
estic heating and cooking, so it is not usually included in official energy statistics. <#/>In many areas, fuelwood can no longer be thought of as a renewable resource because consumption rates exceed sustainable yields. <#/>In certain locations, chiefly 
a
round cities, fuelwood gathering can damage forests. <#/>In the developing countries of sub-Saharan Africa, fuelwood accounts for 80 per cent of total energy consumed, and increased consumption could contribute to severe environmental deterioration in som
e areas. <#/>The situation in parts of Sudan-Saharan and south-eastern regions is already serious and could become critical.
\par <#/>Women are the major end-users of energy in the Third World. <#/>Institutions such as schools, hospitals, hotels and barracks as 
well as the industrial and agricultural sectors are also heavily dependent on fuelwoods and cause local scarcities. <#/>Most studies confirm that rural people seldom cut trees for use in their own homes and they are not the cause of rural deforestation. <
#/>The impact on health of wood smoke and combustion gases is recognized as a major health problem throughout the Third World.
\par <#/>Most households depend on fuelwood as their main source of energy. <#/>In places where the threat of desertification is paramo
unt, women have to travel long distances before enough firewood can be gathered for cooking the day's food. <#/>It is a tedious task for mothers to walk long distances with their babies after the household tasks are completed. <#/>The aftermath of such lo
ng-distance walks in the tropical heat include waste of precious labour time, dehydration and the subsequent debilitating effects on health. <#/>When firewood has to be purchased, limited income is a real constraint.
\par <#/>Rural people seldom view fuelwood sc
arcities in isolation from other household constraints. <#/>From the farmer's perspective, tree planting is not usually the most rational way to respond to fuelwood scarcities. <#/>The demand for fuelwood cannot possibly be met from the sustainable manage
m
ent of existing tree resources. <#/>The conclusion is unavoidable. <#/>If these demands are to be met, vast areas of forested lands must be cleared in the immediate future, or a massive programme of reforestation must be undertaken. <#/>Already more than 
50 million Africans face acute scarcity. <#/>Based on present trends, the demand for fuelwoods would triple by 2020. <#/>The rate of consumption of fuelwood }{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 greatly exceeds }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
the rate of natural growth in many areas. <#/>Even if tree planting is accelerated, 
chronic shortages are almost inevitable. <#/>The main reason for the uncontrolled exploitation of the forest cover, apart from land clearing is that in most countries there are no incentives for sound management or optimization of yields.
\par <#/>Over 60 per c
ent of total energy demand is met by fuelwood in Kenya; this is expected to grow further due to population pressure and rising cost of fuel substitutes. <#/>The demand for fuelwood will grow by 4 per cent per annum to accommodate additional demand for a c
h
eap energy substitute (fuelwood). <#/>In the absence of any intervention, the 'fuelwood gap' between supply and demand will widen considerably. <#/>In some cases, the fuelwood gap has formed the basis for comprehensive energy policy and planning activitie
s.
\par <#/>In Kenya, household energy surveys in the late 1970s were used as the basis for a complex computerized energy information model, the Less Developed Countries (LDC) Energy Alternatives Planning System (LEAP). <#/>The hypothetical policy case which clo
sed the fuelwood gap through different project interventions, described fuelwood planting and tree management activities targeted for around 3.6 million hectares, as well as a range of demand management strategies. <#/>Fuelwood consumption is closely link
ed to its economic cost, and radical changes in patterns of consumption can be anticipated as cost increases. <#/>Consumption is quite dynamically related to its economic cost and to supply.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>Paul Harrison gives a succinct summary of the fuelwood crisis in Africa}{\b\f0 :}{\f0  }{\b\f0 <quote_><X_>}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
In the Rift Valley of Kenya, below the humpbacked Ngong Hills, Maasai women spend up to four hours a day scouring the grassy plains for fuel . <#/>. <#/>. <#/>The most serious and most far-reaching of Africa's wood problem is the fu\-
elwood crisis . <#/>. <#/>. <#/>wood is the main energy source for nine out of every 10 Africans. <#/>It accounts for more than 58 per cent of total energy consumption in the continent as a whole, four times its share in Asia and eight times the share in 
Latin America. <#/>For rural people, wood supplies over 90 per cent of energy. <#/>The fuelwood crisis imposes a growing burden on African families. <#/>Poor families have to spend 20-30 per cent of their incomes on wood or charcoal. <#/>In a growing numb
er of rural areas, fuelwood is becoming a marketed commodity. <#/>But for most rural families fuelwood is still free, and the burden is the growing number of hours that have to be spent searching for sticks and branches.}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X><quote/>}
{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>In most parts of Africa,
 fuelwood shortage is the result rather than the cause of deforestation. <#/>But once deforestation has passed a certain threshold, cutting for fuelwood can become a serious threat to the environment. <#/>Many larger towns in the drier regions are surroun
ded by rings of deforestation spreading out like ripples in a pond. <#/>Once fuelwood supplies disappear altogether, crop residues and even dung are burned instead of being returned to the soil; soil fertility and water-holding capacity decline further.

\par <#/
>The lack of adequate on-farm labour can be an important incentive for farmers to plant trees. <#/>Small holdings headed by very young or very old women face serious labour constraints. <#/>They have an interest in concentrating fodder and fuel resources 
o
n or around the farm so they are more accessible to the household. <#/>These kinds of constraints in some areas of Kenya have led to initiatives which have increased the household's access to - fuelwood. <#/>In some areas of Kisii District, fuelwood colle
ction requires a relatively small proportion of the household's time because fuelwood supplies are obtained from planted and managed on-farm trees.
\par <#/>The most promising approach to reducing demand for fuelwood is to increase the efficiency with which it i
s used. <#/>Traditional three-stone fires are inefficient. <#/>Most studies suggest that only 5-10 per cent of the calorific value of the wood goes into heating the pot. <#/>Improved stoves can cook the same meal with half of the firewood used by the thre
e-stone fire, with a corre\-sponding reduction in smoke.
\par <#/>Bellerive Foundation has installed 800 cooking stoves in 300 institutions in Kenya in an effort to alleviate fuel shortage. <#/>The foundation is a Swiss non-profit organization that <-/instals> an
d maintains the stoves. <#/>Its main concern was planting more trees and production of fuel-efficient cooking stoves. <#/>It established a conservation project conference following the 1981 UN Conference on New and Renewable Sources of Energy in Nairobi, 
w
hich called for immediate action in response to the increasingly acute scarcity of firewood. <#/>The organization established tree nurseries, worked with the Forestry Department in planting and conserving trees and in conjunction with the German Special E
nergy Project (GTZ) and KANU <ea/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 Maendeleo }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <ea/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 ya }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <ea/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 Wanawake }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
Organization introduced domestic stoves in Taita Taveta, Embu, Nakuru, Meru and Isiolo.
\par <#/>The World Commission on Environment and Development notes the key elements of sustainability that h
ave to be reconciled as sufficient growth of energy supplies to meet human needs (which means accommodating a minimum of 3 per cent per capita income growth in developing countries), energy efficiency and conservation measures, public health protection of
 the biosphere and prevention of more localized forms of pollution.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Critical position of women}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>By tradition, women manage the household affairs in developing countries. <#/>Although the occupational specificity of female work varies from so
ciety to society depending on the peculiar socio-economic features, there is no lack of consensus on the overburdened nature of a female worker's daily chores. <#/>These include unpaid domestic work and paid outside work which is an economic necessity. <#
/
>According to Grown and Sebstad, women around the world perform the lowest paid activities and are concentrated in low-end jobs and occupations. <#/>The poorer the household, the more time women devote to working in low return activities. <#/>But earning 
i
ncome represents only one component of women's overall economic activity. <#/>Women are also responsible for providing for most of their families' needs, whether from subsistence agriculture, unpaid work in a family enterprise or household work which incl
u
des fetching fuelwood and water, child care, cooking, cleaning and sewing. <#/>These domestic duties and other unpaid activities often total 60 hours per week and exceed the time women spend in paid work. <#/>This point is further elaborated by Grown and 
Sebstad, }{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 <quote/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 .
\par <#/>Neglecting women's work as food producers, providers and managers is not only detrimental to women, it also makes it impossible to develop the integrated approaches to the interlinked problems of food-fuel-water that are increasingly 
being recognized as essential to the success of policy. <#/>Collection and head carrying of firewood, tending cooking fires and other domestic chores will be more tedious as fuelwood becomes more scarce due to distance and availability of labour time. <#/
>
Poor women are the worst sufferers from their environment degradation because their environment is their - means of livelihood. <#/>Over-exploitation of resources in the form of permanent cultivation over and over without improving the soil, overgrazing a
nd fuel\-wood extraction constitute the prime reasons for environmental degradation. <#/>Population pressure is the catalyst, thus deepening poverty of women and female-headed households.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>Land degradation is a threat to the poor. <#/>The African woman wh
o collects firewood in the forest to cook a simple meal for her family is behaving rationally in her individual context. <#/>She is causing desertification out of ne\-
cessity, not out of choice. <#/>It would be outrageous if powerful countries, for fear of 
climatic changes in their own countries, simply force her to stop cooking food in the only way available to her today. <#/>The role of richer countries must be to help provide her with a choice to use other affordable energy sources for her cooking. <#/>S
olving the environmental problems in poor countries entails a broad agenda for development co-operation.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Recognizing the important role played by African women in agroforestry, animal husbandry, water supply and energy management, the African Women's As
sembly considered the following issues to be of particular significance:
\par <X_>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>The loss of natural forest and woodlands in order to meet fuel needs, to accommodate urban growth and to clear land for agriculture.
\par <#/>Lack of appreciation of the implications of certain policies and programmes on women. <#/>For example, when taxes and fees are imposed on tree-felling, women are driven into positions where they have no choice but to defy the law.
\par <#/>Recognizing local traditions and the need for multi-purpose trees, governments should institute policies which define the criteria for species selection.
\par <#/>Reforestation programmes should be accelerated and the practice of depleting the rural forests for urban fuelwood consumption should be discouraged.
\par <#/>The poor
 woman faces poverty of resources in various forms. <#/>One form is prevalent in high density areas where the trend toward permanent cropping on smaller and smaller plots is accompanied by inadequate soil management. <#/>Natural resources in the medium to
 
long term decrease productivity. <#/>Women tend to be particularly affected by declines in the availability of fuelwood and by the marginalization of their access to land under population pressure, with adverse consequences for food cropping, household en
e
rgy supplies and land-based occupations such as pottery. <#/>The number of areas with better inherent productivity, in which the demand for fuelwood and charcoal is outstripping supply and no economic alternative is available to the poor, is growing. <#/>
Poor women switch to less fuel-demanding foodstuffs or reduce the number of times they cook; other women are forced to divert scarce cash to purchasing fuel.
\par <#/>In this connection, women are always perceived to be part of environmental degradation. <#/>Thi
s is not a correct view. <#/>Women are part and parcel of the conservation of environment because they never cut a tree but only harvest twigs and branches for firewood. <#/>Women know the important medicinal herbs, fruits, fodder, seeds and flowers and a
l
ways preserve them. <#/>These are important sources of income to poor households. <#/>As the potential conservationists and users of such resources, women should be encouraged to use good environmental management in such situations. <#/>When women are not
 involved, community forestry projects will not succeed. <#/>A development programme that overlooks the central role of woman in conservation and management of the environment is adding further problems for the poor woman.
\par <#/>'At the local level, it is har
d to define where environment ends and begins for women. <#/>Almost all development activity can be seen in some way affecting their surrounding especially in rural areas. <#/>Changes in agriculture, forestry, water and waste management all have local env
i
ronmental implications for women as those who have a special relationship with the natural environment by virtue of their daily tasks. <#/>In poverty-focussed sustainable development, women, as the most vulnerable and poorest group in society, are key age
nts in maintaining and enhancing the quality and stock of natural resources. <#/>Women are the main natural resource managers\emdash 
especially as they account for most of the subsistence food production (more than 80 per cent in some African countries).' As major
 consumers, women are in a position of power to influence and control the destruction and exploitation of the environment. <#/>Women need to be in the forefront of the struggle for the environment with their unique experiences and visions of the future an
d logical caring perspective which has too often been ignored and undermined.
\par <#/>In the aggregate, about half of Kenya's 20.2 million population is female and about 60 per cent are below age 20. <#/>Women constitute one-fifth of the formal employed labour 
force. <#/>A rural woman in Kenya today is a young farmer, who has better standards of living, education and more independence than her grandmother had. <#/>Like her grandmother, she is largely responsible for growing, storing and preparing the family's f
o
od, and she also probably helps grow and market cash crops. <#/>She is responsible for finding the family's fuelwood and water for most household chores. <#/>Women generally manage at least two-fifths of the small holdings and exercise substantial influen
ce over the rest.
\par <#/>Available studies show that women spend 13-14 hours a day working, about one-third carrying out food preparation and child-care tasks and the remainder in gathering household water and fuelwood, 
cleaning, farming and other tasks. <#/>Fuelwood collection absorbs about 5-6 hours a week.
\par <#/>Women are responsible for collecting fuelwood, and when the sources are far away, this means women need to trek long distances. <#/>Whether the household is head
ed by married men or women, fetching firewood is a female task. <#/>Planted woodlots can guarantee a steady supply of fuelwood so that much time can be saved each week. <#/>During busy farming seasons when family labour is a constraint on farm productivit
y
, such time saved in fetching fuelwood will greatly enhance the agricultural income and family welfare. <#/>In addition, reducing the burden of fetching fuelwood (by reducing walking distance and time spent) facilitates participation and initiation of inc
ome-generating activities.
\par <#/>Wood as a renewable energy source is usually thought of as naturally occurring trees and shrubs harvested for local domestic use. <#/>Wood is becoming an important feedstock, especially grown for advanced energy conversion pro
cesses, in developing as well as industrial countries, for the production of heat, electricity and other fuels, such as combustible gases and liquids.
\par <#/>The privatization of waste and common lands reduces the availability of woody biomass (twigs, deadfal
l and crop residue) that is the dominant form of domestic energy especially among poor households in Africa. <#/>This leads to severe rural energy shortages, which are worsened by rapid rates of population increase.
\par <#/>In most rural areas, simply growing 
more trees does not necessarily solve the problem. <#/>In some districts where there are many trees, fuelwood is not available to those who need it. <#/>The trees may be owned by only a few people. <#/>Or tradition may dictate that women play no role in t
h
e cash economy and cannot buy or sell wood. <#/>The communities concerned will have to work out local solutions to these problems. <#/>Self-sufficiency should be the goal, and given a little assistance and training, many people in this sector are only too
 
willing to start self-help schemes. <#/>Multi-purpose trees, providing timber, fodder, fruit, mulch, hedging or windbreaks, are likely to prove more attractive; these automatically increase the potential supply of fuelwood from prunings, waste or dead tre
es.
\par <#/>Environmental benefits are not the only consideration. <#/>For individual households, a one-third cut in fuelwood consumption would be a very significant gain. <#/>For poor urban households buying their fuel, it would amount to an 8-14 per cent incr
ease in income available for other things. <#/>For rural households in semi-arid areas, it would save women four to six hours a week, improve their nutritional status, free extra time for planting and weeding, and boost crop yields accordingly.
\par <#/>Trees m
ake money. <#/>Tree farmers can sell trees for fuelwood, fencing, charcoal production and timber. <#/>Maathai states that in Kenya, women are the largest users of wood. <#/>As part of the Green Belt Movement, women produce seedlings that are subsequently 
r
eleased to small scale farmers and public institutions such as schools and churches. <#/>Thus, women are paid for the tree seedlings and this creates an income-generating activity for them. <#/>Ultimately, this improves their economic position. <#/>Costs 
of tree-clearing usually exceed the benefits. <#/>Governments consistently undervalue the benefits from leaving forests untouched. <#/>For the world's 500 million forest-dwellers, they are a source of food, fuel and furniture\emdash 
usually unmarketed and so unvalued.
\par <#/>Food scarcity is emerging as the most profound and immediate consequence of global environmental degradation, and it is already affecting the welfare of hundreds of millions of people. <#/>A UNICEF situation analysis notes that community self-help
 activities have contributed substantially to the spread of basic need facilities and services throughout Kenya. <#/>Localities and groups have undertaken projects to meet small-scale community needs for schools, health facilities, cattle dips, social hal
ls, feeder roads, water supply schemes and fish ponds. <#/>Women make substantial contributions to local community development activities. <#/>Women provide 80 per cent of the labour for }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Harambee }{
\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 projects. <#/>Economic betterment is a central focus of 
women's group activity. <#/>Many groups originate around economic concerns. <#/>Others move to economic issues in order to realize welfare objectives. <#/>For many women, the collective ownership acquired through group projects is the closest they come to
 owning some form of property that does not bear the title of their husband, father or brother. <#/>In this respect, the women's group programmes in Kenya also give women a sense of belonging.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Need for cost-effective woodlots}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\v\f0 <#/>}{\v The uncontro
lled felling of trees without subsequent sustainable replacement will result in acute environmental problems that include soil erosion, siltation of water reservoirs and flows, deforestation and land degradation responsible for falling agricultural produc
tivity. <#/>The World Bank will triple its lending for forestry projects in the next few years and will intensify its participation in the Tropical Forest Action Programme, designed to manage the world's tropical forests.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Loss of forest cover forces far
mers to burn dung and crop residues for fuel, depriving their land of organic matter and nutrients. <#/>This makes the land less fertile and more vulnerable to drought. <#/>Deforestation also leads to devastating floods. <#/>Dewees argues that when tree p
l
anting is encouraged as a response to fuel scarcities, trees often assume much higher economic values to the farmer; consequently, tree planting may have little or no impact on reducing the household's reliance on agricultural residues. <#/>Moreover, some
 
agricultural residues which make good fuelwoods cannot be dug back into the soil in a way which improves soil structure or fertility. <#/>Stalks from cotton, cassava, pigeon peas and chick peas are examples. <#/>Dewees further adds that despite continuing
 
emphasis on the contribution of fuelwood consumption to deforestation, it is becoming increasingly accepted that the primary causes of deforestation are more closely related to land clearance to support agricultural expansion. <#/>He says that although fu
e
lwood demands may sometimes contribute to deforestation, fuelwood scarcity can become most critical as an outcome of deforestation. <#/>The widespread clearing of lands for agriculture severely reduces the available forest area. <#/>At that point the gath
e
ring of fuel from the remaining woodland may well begin to exceed the sustainable harvest. <#/>As a response farmers develop sophisticated tree management strategies. <#/>Fuelwood collection involves cutting a few branches from a live tree, or the collect
ion of dead wood. <#/>As long as the root stock is not de\-
stroyed, the productivity of woodlands under this type of stress, brought about as a result of fuelwood harvesting can be significantly higher than woodlands which are not stressed this way. <#/>Fuel
wood collection, rather than having a serious and destructive impact on tree cover, can often be a productive tree management strategy.
\par <#/>There is a need for establishing cost-effective woodlots for fuelwood harvesting. <#/>Net benefits of afforestation are vast. <#/>Traditional analysis identifies the benefits of tree growing as the value of the tree products\emdash 
fuelwood, poles and fruit\emdash in each case, taking the yield and multiplying by a market price. <#/>To these benefits have to be added increases in liv
estock weight brought about by improved dry season fodder. <#/>Additional benefits include the avoided damage from desertification, measured by difference in yields from soils with and without afforestation and improvements in yield due to the shelterbelt
 and farm forestry effects on soil nutrient recycling and moisture retention. <#/>Some costs include damage caused by pests protected by tree cover.
\par <#/>A good example of afforestation benefits can be found in the gum arabic belt of Sudan. <#/><foreign/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Acacia senegal }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
yields a polysaccharide gum which is exported throughout the world. <#/>Because it is non-toxic, flavourless, non-polluting, odourless and devoid of calorie content, gum arabic has high value in the manufacture of }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <-/}{
\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 confectionary>, in beverage
s (as an emulsifier and suspensoid) and in pharmaceuticals. <#/>Exports in 1985 amounted to some $US 80 million, Sudan's third most important export after cotton and livestock. <#/>But in addition to its direct commercial value, <foreign/>}{
\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 A. <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 , <foreign/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 senegal }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
has remarkable environmental qualities. <#/>It stabilizes soil with its deep taproot and expansive lateral root system and retains soil moisture. <#/>Being leguminous, it fixes atmospheric nitrogen and encourages graminaceous cover, assisting pas
ture growth. <#/>Leaf and pod composition help supply proteins to the surrounding soil. <#/>The effect on rotated cereals and root crops is disputed but some authorities indicate increased yields of around 15 per cent for intercropping with gum arabic. <#
/>Its general environmental functions make it an important aid in anti-desertification policy, and significant efforts have been made in the past to restock the gum belt of Sudan. <#/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 A.}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  }{
\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 senegal is }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 also a source of fodder for livestock and fuelwood. <#/>Gum
 tapping can also be an important source of dry season employment. <#/>Allowing for just fodder yields and fuelwood values, it is estimated that rates of return to gum arabic planting could be as high as 36 per cent. <#/>What matters is a more comprehensi
ve listing, identification and measurement of the benefits. <#/>When these are integrated into fairly conventional cost-benefit analysis, the effect on increased social profitability is marked.
\par <#/>In forest-deficit countries, afforestation efforts are some
times less successful because women do not receive income from plantations and sometimes therefore do not protect the trees. <#/>Planted or regenerated species in plantations may be put under management systems optimal for timber with spacing and cutting 
regimes that prevent women from getting products they value\emdash 
 fruit, seed pods for fodder or a regular supply of fuelwood. <#/>The failure of projects to alleviate fuel and fodder shortages has too often been attributed to villagers' commercial objectives an
d too seldom to gaps in technological recommendations. <#/>The scope to involve women's groups in tree and fodder planting efforts on wastelands is often unrecognized.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Conclusion}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\v\f0 <#/>}{\v Demand for fuelwood exceeds its supply, and in this context 
poor women in rural areas of developing countries suffer most in terms of lost labour time, undercooked food and malnutrition of the family members due to low agricultural productivity arising from environmental degradation. <#/>Hence there is a need to a
l
leviate the scarcity of fuelwood in terms of distance, availability and afforestation. <#/>Such a cost-effective woodlot once introduced will confer benefits that far exceed the cost of establishing one, which simultaneously improves the environment. <#/>
Rural women are the target, where the unwinding of the vicious cycle of poverty takes place. <#/>The family, village, nation and global family gain as a result of the establishment of communal woodlots on a self-help basis in fuelwood-deficit areas.}{</X>
}{\v 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\f0\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par }{\b\v <&_>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Sunny, Grace (1992) }{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057  }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 \lquote Women's role in the supply of fuelwood\rquote }{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 In Shanyisa A. Khasiani (ed) }{\b\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Groundwork}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  ACTS Press, Nairobi, pp. 55-65</&>
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par W2A034K
\par <I> <h}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 > }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 I. INTRODUCTION}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>Although conditions of 'development', in the sense of growth and improvemen
t in quality, exist in relation to many phenomena and for all places, their significance is most markedly felt in new nations. <#/>These nations are involved in endeavours aimed at consolidating their nationhood (through political and constitutional actio
n), enhancing their material self\_
sufficiency (through economic improvement), promoting and stabilising their communal advantages and harmony of living (through social policy and programmes), and refining and perfecting their arts and other cultural phenomena.
\par <#/>Development in such nations primarily addresses itself to: the realisation of political integrity, as a basis for civil harmony and international credibility; the enhancement of economic well\_being, for the individual, the family and the nation; th
e improvement of social life in such vital spheres as environmental safety, health, education and recreation; and the perfection of cultural life, in such fields as arts, scholarship, mannerism, etc.
\par <#/>These various elements in the development agenda are
 functionally intertwined, and it may well be that none of them trumps the others. <#/>But it is arguable that the entire range of them form a constellation around the economic and social phenomena, which lie at the inner core of the developmental set\_
up, in the human agenda.
\par <#/>This rule of thumb sets the pattern of this paper: to address the more material aspect of development, and with reference to the increasingly important concept of 'sustainable development'. <#/>The status review on the current envi
ronmental crisis, which follows, will show that <-/developoment>, as it is understood in common practice, is reaching its limits. <#/>And if life is to continue as a gift of nature, then those limits must be overcome. <#/>It is now recognised that the ide
a
l framework for dealing with such matters of destiny is that given by the principle of sustainable development. <#/>This, as will be seen, is a broad concept whose practical utility cannot be taken for granted; it remains to conceive simple, workable form
ulae which can be translated into the day\_to\_
day activities in the individual nations. <#/>This paper hopes to make its contribution by addressing the question: What is the place of property doctrine in the goals of sustainable development, and in what mann
er does such doctrine inhibit or facilitate overall socio\_economic development?
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 II. THE ENVIRONMENTAL CRISIS: A STATUS REVIEW}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>The concept of sustainable development is most elaborately developed in the World Commission on Environment and Development's (WCED) well\_
known report, Our Common Future, which defines it as: 'development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs'. <#/>It has also been defined as: 'improving the
 quality of human life while living within the carrying capacity of supporting systems'.
\par <#/>Human endeavours in economic development are now recognized to be leading straight into the grips of diverse, grave consequences, affecting the viability of natural resources and the integrity of the ecosystem. <#/>These, in summary, are: (i) situatio
ns occasioned by air pollution \_\_ the greenhouse effect, acid rain, and the depletion of the ozone layer; (ii) consequences related to the depletion of damage to the bio\_resources \_\_
 deforestation, desertification, water depletion, species extinction; (iii)
 consequences associated with the continual poisoning of land and water, by pesticides, herbicides and toxic wastes; and (iv) conditions flowing from deleterious effects of noise pollution.
\par <#/>In greenhouse, effect, certain gases fail to clear out of the 
atmosphere by seeping into the natural carbon sinks; they linger around and trap the sun's heat, thus subjecting the earth to an undue amount of warmth. <#/>The human sources which generate these emissions have exceeded the capacity of the sinks to absorb
 
the greenhouse gases. <#/>The effect of the global warming is that it 'will involve changes in precipitation and wind patterns, changes in the frequency and intensity of storms, ecosystem stress and species loss, reduced availability of fresh water, and a
 rising global mean sea level'.
\par <#/>Acid rain results when water falls from the clouds, and in the process mixes with polluting substances generated from burning fossil fuels, used in power stations and factories, or from vehicular emissions. <#/>The mixtur
e forms dilute sulphuric and nitric acids, which then fall as rain. <#/>Such rain will kill aquatic life, and corrode buildings and cultural artifacts. <#/>It will also cause damage to forests and crops, and in other ways threaten human health.
\par <#/>The ozo
nosphere, which is made up of supercharged oxygen (03), forms a protective layer against the deleterious effects on human life, of the direct rays of the sun. <#/>It has been established that the ozone layer is gradually getting depleted by the effect of 
c
hlorofluorocarbons, which are generated by man's industrial and related activities. <#/>Although in 1987 the United Nations adopted the Montreal Protocol on Substances that deplete the Ozone Layer, as a 'global risk management treaty' that called for a fr
e
eze in the production of the controlled chlorofluorocarbons, at their 1986 levels, intensified industrial activity within individual states has continued to advance the damage. <#/>While the main culprits remain the industrialised countries of the North, 
t
he sustained attempts at increased industrial production in the developing countries is destined to bring these countries, someday, to the big league of ozone layer depleters. <#/>The overall depletion achieved, will seriously undermine the health status 
of all mankind.
\par <#/>Under the head 'damage to bio\_resources', deforestation immediately comes to mind. <#/>About 10,000 years ago there were some 6.2 billion hectares of forest. <#/>Deforestation has since then taken place on a large scale, and particularly
 in the North; and today only some 4 billion hectares of forested land are left. <#/>Half of these are in the temperate lands, and half in the tropics. <#/>A special feature about the tropical forests, which raises much concern about them, is that they ha
ve an immense concentration of biological diversity \_\_ which is particularly important for biotechnology and for medical science. <#/>But defores\-
tation in the tropics is taking place at the exceptional rate of 17 million hectares per year. <#/>Not only does this compromise the fundamental role of these forests in the ecological cycle \_- with resultant climate change \_\_
 but the process of destruction is leading to the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere -- with accelerative effect on climate change, and consequent disruptive impact on the ecosystem.
\par <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <+_article>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  Great deal of Africa's forests is just cleared for direct sale to the North \_\_ as raw material. <#/>Blame has been ascribed to African states, by the International Tropical Timber Orga
nisation (ITTO), 'for exporting most of its wood as logs which tends to encourage reckless exploitation of the tropical forests'. <#/>The failing of these states is seen to be their failure to develop or acquire the technology to process logs, to enable t
hem to export only the secondary product; this would give them wider policy\_scope in the management and conservation of their primary forest resources.
\par <#/>Desertification is attendant on deforestation. <#/>This would be true especially in semi\_arid areas. 
<#/>The fate of Lake Chad may be taken as a case in point. <#/>This lake and its basin extend into Chad, Nigeria, Cameroon and Niger. <#/>The lake and its basin are shrinking and deteriorating into desert. <#/>The surface area of the lake waters has dimin
i
shed from 28,000 sq. k.m. to a mere 10,000 sq. k.m. <#/>This grim trend may be set down to 'prolonged droughts that have occurred during the last three decades, erosion of alluvial soils, wind erosion including deposition of sand and formation of sand bar
riers'.
\par <#/>Forest cover stabilises soils, soil hydrology and the nourishment \_ interplay between the soil and the vegetation. <#/>The ecosystem is disrupted and damaged, once the vegetation cover is removed, and the resultant deterioration, especially in semi\_
arid lands, rapidly attracts desertification.
\par <#/>Inseparably linked to deforestation are the phenomena of water depletion and species extinction. <#/>Destruction of forest cover breaks the water cycle from the soil, through the organic process in plan
ts, to the atmospheric moisture content, and back to the soil in the form of precipitation. <#/>This changes the climate, and the return of water into the soil through regular rainfall patterns is disrupted and halted. <#/>The effect is to deprive the soi
l of water, with grave consequences for human and animal requirements.
\par <#/>The same forests provide favourable conditions for diversity in animal and plant life \_\_ and their destruction leads to the decimation of fauna and flora species. <#/>As UNEP's State of the World Environment states: }{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 <quote_><X_
>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 'Forests are ... the essential habitat of numerous plant and animal species. <#/>Virgin forests, especially those in tropical regions, are an irreplaceable repository of the genetic heritage of the world's flora and fauna'}{
\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X><quote/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 .
\par <#/>The environmental crisis also takes the form of soil and water poisoning, by way of pesticides, herbicides and toxic wastes. <#/>The use or handling of such chemicals and wastes immediately lodges poisonous ingredients in the soil \_\_ 
even though man is then labouring under the assumption that he is thereby enhancing economic productivity. <#/>True, such chemicals may, for a time, lead to larger quantities of agricultural yields than would otherwise be realised. <#/>But in time, they w
ill poison the soils, yields may fall, and the practice of agriculture may altogether be discontinued \_\_
 unless new technology brings forth a method of treatment and restoration. <#/>Much worse, such chemicals are likely to find their way into both under\-gr
ound water, and runoff, as well as to seep into man's food chain, through plant uptake. <#/>In this way, the chemicals will constitute a health hazard and diminish man's good social life. <#/>The toxic substances which end up in the water courses may also
 pollute potable water for man and other animals.
\par <#/>Illustration is found in a recent study entitled 'The Impact of Pollution on the Ecology of Nairobi\_Athi River System in Kenya'. <#/>The authors found as follows: }{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 <quote_><X_>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
'The Nairobi River is affected m
ainly by gross organic pollution that causes anaerobic conditions and disappearance of microinvertebrate fauna. <#/>This does not exclude the simultaneous presence of chemical pollutants. <#/>The main sources of pollution are markets, "kiosks", densely po
p
ulated residential areas and open air garages. <#/>There is little industrial activity on the river banks and the main source of chemical pollution is the Sewage Treatment Works at Kariobangi. <#/>The deleterious impact of the sewage effluent can be trace
d until 20 k.m. out of the city ....'}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X><quote/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par <#/>UNEP's report on the State of the World Environment (1989) makes it clear that 'Virtually all industrial activity generates waste, which is discarded because it has no further use'. <#/>But much of this waste is hazardous waste, i.e. }{
\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 <quote_><X_>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
 'wastes other than radioactive wastes which, by reason of their chemical reactivity or toxic, explosive, corrosive or other characteristics... [are] likely to cause danger to health or the environment, whether alone or w
hen coming into contact with other wastes'}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X><quote/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
. <#/>The general inability of national agencies to neutralise such wastes and dispose of them safely has already led to a great deal of concern at international forums of policy and law\_making. <#/>(It is 
to be hoped that this moral pressure will elicit the co\_operation of individual states, in safeguarding soil and water against unmindful disposal of toxic substances emanating from industrial and related enterprises).
\par <#/>In the same way chemical pollutant
s cause degeneration in the air, and in the soil and water, affecting the normal life cycle, noise depending on its intensity, rocks the stability of physical structures dwellings and cultural artifacts, and disrupts the healthful life of man and other an
i
mals. <#/>The effects may be classified as environmental pollution, insofar as their impact is on the soil, vegetation and air, and the living organisms in those quarters are disrupted in their normal existence, so that they can no longer live a normal li
fe cycle.
\par <#/>Derek Roebuck, in graphic illustration of the effect of noise pollution (which is a direct incident of activities designed to bring economic progress), recounts the grim Japanese experience with aircraft and locomotive activity. <#/>Of Osaka I
nternational Airport, he writes: }{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 <quote_><X_>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
'Osaka ... lies south of Tokyo. <#/>It is with its neighbouring city of Kobe, a large industrial complex. <#/>Its international airport is in the heart of a densely populated area, its runways running straight up to
 the streets of old wooden houses. <#/>About 440 planes take off and land every day, one every two minutes at rush hours. <#/>Those who live near the airport are subjected to noises of up to 110 phons and to an enormous amount of exhaust gases from the je
t engines. <#/>The residents live in constant fear of a crash. <#/>Their houses shake all the time as if struck by an earthquake. <#/>Because of the noise, they cannot carry a normal }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <-/}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
conservation> or hear callers on the telephone. <#/>Because of the inte
rference, they cannot watch television or listen to the radio. <#/>Their thoughts, even their dreams, are disturbed. <#/>It is impossible to have a normal life. <#/>They are irritated and suffer from stress. <#/>They have physical symptoms: impaired heari
ng, tinnitus, dizziness, enterohepatic dysfunctions, hypertension, cardiac disorders, undergrown foetus, abortion, bronchitis and other respiratory disorders, nosebleeding, disorders in the endocrine system and so on'}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X><quote/>}{
\f0\fs24\lang2057 .}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>The foregoing examples suf
fice to show the limits of popular notions of economic and social development. <#/>Most of the current development strategy is founded on some crude faith in exploitation of materials, <-/consumptionism>, and casting away of used reagents, catalysts and w
astes. <#/>But this at once exposes the sensitivities and frailties of the natural resources themselves, and of the entire ecosystem. <#/>Those processes, which give only a short\_
term human satisfaction, objectively seen, appear as intrusions in the normal course of nature \_\_
 of which man is part. <#/>But his desires have taken the form of <-/artificialities> that are sharply contradictory to the order of nature. <#/>Moreover, it is the immediate goals of consumption and short\_term comfort, that seem to be t
he preoccupation of man's governing and social\_management institutions \_\_
 the political and constitutional order, the public policies and laws in force. <#/>In the quest for the essential fundamental change, the character and activities of such major insti
tutions must be addressed. <#/>They have been addressed, indirectly, through international organisations (such as UNEP) which relate to the activities of sovereign states; but the relevant communications carry no unfailing authority, and to give them actu
al validity, it seems the individual states must be accorded the information base, and the practical support, which will lead them, of their own volition, to modify their domestic policy and legal arrangements.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <X_>}{\v\f0 <#/>A substantial amount of research must be d
one, that will be incorporated into state practice, in order to bring a new development strategy; for, failing this, the fate of the earth is sealed, in the manner pointedly remarked by Queen Beatrix in her Christmas message to the Dutch people (1988): }{
\b\v\f0 <quote_>}{\v\f0 'The earth is slowly dying, and the inconceivable \_\- the end of life itself \_\_ is actually becoming conceivable. <#/>We human beings have become a threat to our own planet'}{\b\v\f0 <quote/>}{\v\f0 .
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v\f0 <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 It is believed that a practical commitment to sustainable develop
ment is the only way to avert disaster. <#/>But it remains for scholars to outline the full scenario of sustainable development, and to propose ways of giving it a meaning that lends itself to implementation. <#/>There are impediments to the realisation o
f sustainable development. <#/>These have to be diagnosed ...}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X>
\par </I>
\par }\pard\plain \s45\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \b\v\lang2057 <&_>From: Ojwang, J.B.: Property development as a limiting factor on development: A perspective on 'sustainable development' 
\par \pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Professor of Law, 47</&>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par W2A035K
\par <I> <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Social justice or development? <#/>The puzzle of basic needs in Kenya}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 INTRODUCTION}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>In Kenya, the preoccupation with providing for basic needs and concern over the issues of development and social justice have become more pronounced wi
th time. <#/>The frequency with which these issues are referred to and sometimes debated upon by all kinds of people bears testimony to this concern. <#/>The daily press hardly misses stories or letters from readers expressing their feelings about some pe
rceived inequities; marginalization of certain categories of people and the perennial problem of survival. <#/>There can be no doubt that these issues and concerns will become more critical as the country continues to grow.
\par <#/>The three concepts involved n
amely basic needs, social justice and development are very powerful concepts that have probably, as a result of that fact, acquired different definitions in the minds of many different people. <#/>It therefore seems imperative that before embarking on a d
iscussion of this nature, some definitions of these concepts as will be used in this paper be set <-/>set out.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 THREE CONCEPTS}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <h> <#/>a) Development </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{Of the three concepts, development is arguably the most powerful and has been a major
 preoccupation of some of the greatest minds of this century. <#/>In the Third World especially, its allure continues to grow as these countries aspire to attain a condition of 'development'.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<#/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 One intellectual fallacy that seems to have marred much deve
lopment thinking in our time is the conception of development as the development of things, systems, and structures rather than the development of man and human beings everywhere. <#/>While systems and structures must almost inevitably change in the proce
ss of development, they are at most only the means of
\par Things \_ Anything that is produced
\par Systems \_ Systems of distribution
\par Structures \_ Whole set of interacting relations and multilateral to be found in any society}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  (source: See footnote 1) }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par <#/>achieving development. <#/>The real test of whether development has taken place or not must in the end be found in what it has done to human beings and not what things, systems and structures have been created.
\par <#/>If development is meant for people, and no one seems 
to dispute this, then it must be people who have to give it its sociological meaning. <#/>As a result, development will only be meaningful if it results in the improvement of the quality of life of at least the majority if not all of the people in a socie
t
y. <#/>Assessment of the quality of life must therefore focus on those indicators that have a bearing on improving living conditions such as increasing income levels and its distribution in a society, quality and access to public utilities, consumption pa
t
terns and others, in such a way that as an increasing number of population experience an improvement in their lives as apply to these indicators, then we can say a process of development is taking place. <#/>Whereas there is no limit theoretically to this
 process in practice when the majority or all of a population enjoys a high quality of life as exemplified by their status <-/viz\_a\_vis> these indicators, then we may say that a society or country is developed.
\par <h> <#/>b) Basic Needs </h>
\par <#/>According to M
aslow, human needs are arranged in a <-/hierachy> of prepotency which means that the most prepotent goal will monopolise consciousness and will tend of itself to organize the recruitment of the various capacities of the organism. <#/>He list five sets of 
basic needs in the order of their priority: physiological needs, safety, love, esteem and self\_actualisation.
\par <#/>Of these sets of needs, this paper will focus solely on the first set namely the physiological and more specifically on food. <#/>The main reas
on for this is that of all the physical needs, it is perhaps the most critical in that consciousness is almost completely pre\_
empted by hunger which is the lack of food. <#/>A person who is hungry or starving is in no position to meet any of his other need
s or to participate in activities that are useful to himself or his community. <#/>Such a person's contribution to the development process is nil since all his thoughts and physical efforts will be geared towards satisfying his hunger for food before he c
an do anything else.
\par <h> <#/>c) Social Justice </h>
\par <#/>Justice as a concept may be regarded as a criterion by which good laws of a society are evaluated. <#/>As a principle it may be regarded as treating equals equally and unequals unequally in proportion 
to their inequality. <#/>According to one author, in its full generality, the concept of justice embraces three elements and is applicable to all situations where these elements are found together. <#/>The first is other directedness. <#/>Justice is inter
\_subjective and has to do with inter\_
personal relationships. <#/>The second element is the concept of duty, or of what is owed or what is a person's 'own' by right or his due. <#/>The third element we can call the concept of equity, proportionality, equilibrium or balance.
\par <#/>While cummutative justice is a matter of redress and requires equivalent exchange proceeding from arithmetical equality, distributive justice according to Aristotle covers 'those things that are divided among the members of the body po
litic'. <#/>These include honour, wealth, food, shelter and other things. <#/>Thus cummutative standards <-/ofjustice> may be viewed as being derivative rather than primary. <#/>This must be so because it would be difficult to discuss justice in exchange 
without consideration of its distributive context.
\par <#/>Social justice therefore has to do with no less than the distributive aspects of the legal rules of a society. <#/>In other words, while legal justice is concerned with conforming to the rules whatever 
those rules may be, social justice is about the distributive qualities of those rules. <#/>Judgements about social justice try to confirm whether existing rules distribute burdens and benefits justly among the members of a community. <#/>However, since in
 
practice, considerations of social justice are sometimes infused into legal justice, the two are neither mutually exclusive nor necessarily correlated; they apply to different phases of the social process. <#/>So while legal justice may be viewed as descr
ibing the work done by a judge, social justice may be seen as describing the work done by a legislator.
\par <#/>According to Sadurski, the principle of justice is a generalization based on particular moral convictions that are applied to those cases that call f
or a just arrangement. <#/>This general principle can be formulated as follows; whenever an ideal, hypothetical balance of social benefits and burdens is upset, social justice calls for restoring it.
\par <#/>This initial and hypothetical equilibrium as propose
d by Sadurski has several characteristics. <#/>The first is a social condition characterised by mutual abstention, by mutual respect of liberties. <#/>In respecting other persons' sphere of autonomy, all enjoy equally the benefits of autonomy and the burd
ens of self\_restraint.
\par <#/>The second characteristic is the equal satisfaction for all persons of basic material conditions of meaningful life: no one suffers burdens which make his subsistence or <-/pariticipation> in community life impossible. <#/>This do
es not mean that everyone has equal conditions of life but rather that no one is excluded from the possibility of having a meaningful and decent life as measured by the general standards of his or her society. <#/>The possible forms of denial of means of 
meaningful life do not necessarily involve positive action by someone but include also failure to provide some essentials such as food.
\par <#/>The third characteristic is that everyone's work, effort, action and sacrifice yields a benefit equivalent to the con
tribution; in other words, that a person's 'outcomes' are equal to his 'inputs'. <#/>Persons who do more for others than they take from them should be rewarded for this difference; extra benefits restore equilibrium which has been upset by an extra effort
.
 <#/>In a complex social exchange one can hardly talk about 'equality' of inputs and outcomes because they are usually incommensurate. <#/>Equilibrium is achieved when the overall level is equal for all people, that is, when the ratio of one person's outc
omes to inputs is equal to <-_other><+_another> <-_persons><person\rquote s> outcome/input ratio.
\par <#/>There are three methods of restoring the balance in this hypothetical equilibrium. <#/>The method of restoring the first balance of mutual non\_harm is punishment.
 <#/>Distribution aimed at the satisfaction of basic needs is a way of restoring social equilibrium in its second aspect, while distribution according to desert is the proper method for restoring the overall balance of inputs and benefits, that is, the th
ird aspect of equilibrium.
\par <#/>Of these, the second and third are of direct relevance to this discussion, the third in that it raises the very important issue on how society rewards effort by giving one the means to live, the second because it enables us to
 assess the status of social equilibrium by examining the distribution of any basic need such as food in a society.
\par <h> <#/>d) A Brief Synthesis </h>
\par <#/>Food occupies a very central position in human existence. <#/>To the extent that one cannot get food f
or any reason, his very existence and survival are at stake. <#/>If one is in a position to satisfy this need and avoid hunger, he is then in a position to pursue his other basic needs be they physiological needs, safety needs, love, esteem or self\_
actuali
sation. <#/>The aim of pursuing these needs is to improve his quality of life. <#/>If man is the object of the development process, then the improvement of his quality of life in all possible ways must be the emphasis. <#/>If for any reason his access to 
food is denied or is inadequate, then all his efforts to improve his quality of life by pursuing his needs is hampered and both his survival and ability to develop personally and socially is threatened.
\par <#/>In order to avoid such unpleasant possibilities it
 is necessary that there be a measure of guarantee for everyone's access to food. <#/>The questions to be asked in any situation of deprivation will inevitably be what kinds of distributive mechanisms exist and what may have happened to make them produce 
s
uch an undesirable result. <#/>This is because social justice emphasises distribution. <#/>However once that distributive quality is lacking, then not everyone has the opportunity to engage in an activity that enables their efforts to be rewarded. <#/>Fol
l
owing from that, they are unable to satisfy the basic material conditions for a meaningful life. <#/>In such a situation, there would be a worsening of hunger, poverty, ignorance, disease, all factors bearing on man's quality of life with a definite negat
ive effect on development.
\par <#/>While the foregoing would seem to indicate that development can only exist in a situation where social justice exists or vice\_versa, the title of this paper seems to suggest otherwise. <#/>Before discussing whether development
 and social justice are mutually exclusive or not, it is appropriate to briefly mention some of the facts which are relevant to the food issue in Kenya today.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 THE STATUS OF FOOD IN KENYA}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <h> <#/>a) An Overview </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{In the mid\_1970's a glob
al survey conducted by the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) asked respondents whether there had been a time during the previous year when they did not have enough money to buy food. <#/>A significant number of people said ' yes'. <#
/
>Over 70% of Africans south of the Sahara answered 'yes' 66% in India, 42% in Mexico, 15% in Italy, 14% in Japan and USA. <#/>Given the fact that by 1980, food production per capita was 22% lower than in 1960, with the high population growth rate experien
ced in Africa since the 1970's one may fairly say that the proportion of sub-Saharan Africans who would answer 'yes' to this question today must have increased.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<#/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
Agriculture is the largest industry in Kenya as in most other African countries and therefore national rates of growth and development are determined more by it than any other factor. <#/>Kenya, again as many other countries, experiences its share of drou
ght and the resultant food shortages that have seen not only movement of grain and other foods by the government as famine relief, but importation of food from USA and other countries.
\par <X_>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>However, such food crises are not only due to drought. <#/>They also result from low agricultural productivity rates linked to inadequate investment outlays; poor incentive to farmers; fragmentation and sub\_
division of holdings; inadequate land tenure systems; limited agricultural research; rural\_urban migration and other factors.
\par <h> <#/>b) Food, Energy and Health </h>
\par <#/>Although generally, most food is consumed where it is grown, for many of the very poor, it is the trade in food which determines directly or indirectly whether there will be something to eat for the next
 meal, be it from their meagre savings or famine relief. <#/>Wherever it exists, it is true that poverty is the prime cause of hunger. <#/>Yet this situation exists in a global context where supplies of dietary energy are estimated to be about 10% more th
a
n the nutritional requirements of the world. <#/>It is estimated that even the supplies available in developing countries would be nearly sufficient for domestic needs if they were distributed strictly in accordance with these requirements. <#/>However, l
ike any other kind of energy, food calories have their price. <#/>Depending on climate and other factors, it is estimated that for the right to a healthy life, a grown up may require about 2,400 calories a day.
\par <#/>According to the African Medical and Research Foundation (AMREF), between 1977\_1979, the average annual growth rate of volume of food production in Kenya was 2.9% while the same rate of total food production per capita plunged \_
0.5% due to increasing population. <#/>This meant that by 1979, the daily }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <-/}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 calory> supply per capita of percentage of total requirement was 88%. <#/>It should be noted that was more than a decade ago.
\par <#/>A significant number of Kenyan small farm households, who are estimated to comprise 75% of the total national populatio
n, is estimated to consume fewer calories than the recommended daily allowance (RDA). <#/>In this sense, these households suffer from food poverty. <#/>It should be clearly noted that the use of the term 'food poverty' does not imply starvation or severe 
malnutrition. <#/>All that is indicated is that many Kenyans are food poor relative to the RDA used here which is 2,400 calories per adult per day.
\par <#/>According to Sessional Paper No.4 of 1981, the national food intake average per capita in 1976 was 2,084 
calories. <#/>In 1980 it was 2,024 calories and it was estimated that by 1989, it would have fallen to 2,011. <#/>It may be below 2,000 today or will soon be below that.
\par <#/>As explained by Greer and Thorbecke, food poverty is a normative, arbitrary and in
exact concept and it seeks to measure whether individuals consume enough food or have the means to consume enough food to enjoy a minimum desirable physical health. <#/>Poverty and hunger are pervasive facts of life for many rural and urban Kenyan familie
s
. <#/>The Second Nutrition Survey carried out by the Central Bureau of Statistics in 1980 found that 5% of the children sampled suffered from severe stunting, indicating malnourishment of such severity or duration as to be expected to lead to clinical sym
ptoms or illness. <#/>In addition, 42% showed signs of chronic but sub\_
clinical malnutrition. <#/>Considering that according to the 1979 population census, 49.8% of the total population were below 15 years of age, the situation becomes quite frightening. <#/>It indicates the existence of a significant amount of poverty.

\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {
<#/>Nutritional shortages have a serious impact on human beings and may cause physiological problems. <#/>Mild energy shortages cause lost growth for infants, lowered ability to learn among s
chool children, and decreased ability to work and thus earn a living among adults. <#/>Severe food deficiencies result in weight loss, susceptibility to disease, more severe sickness and listlessness.</X>
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\f0\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Dickson Mudhune Ombaka, lecturer History. Luo, 35.
\par Dept. of Development Studies Kenyatta University Nairobi
\par International Seminar on Law and Development November 1991
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\b\v \lquote Social justice or development? The puzzle of basic needs in Kenya\rquote </&>
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par W2A036K
\par <I> <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Policy impacts on women and environment}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Introduction}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <X_>}{\v\f0 <#/>}{\v 
In a simpler time, not so long ago, environmentalists talked about saving forests for hiking, streams for rafting and clean air for the pure enjoyment of breathing it. <#/>Now, as the 1990s approach, the talk has turned to the science of survival\emdash 
saving forests for oxygen, keeping streams from spreading toxic pollutants, cleaning the air to avoid catastrophic global warming. <#/>The threat of an environmental catalysm is replacing nuclear holocaust as the scariest menace to civilisation.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
Environmental trends in the world today threaten to radically alter the planet, endangering the lives of many species including human beings. <#/>Africa is facing an environmental crisis of greater magnitude than ever before. <#/>Reversing Af
rica's decline in productivity will require carefully orchestrated national efforts to organise millions of people to plant trees and build soil conservation terraces and plan smaller families.}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057\super 
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{The global and continental assessments and predictions of 
the situation of the environment for the last decade of the 20th century are as alarming as they are real. <#/>The 1990s will therefore be a critical decade for arresting and reversing the current trend of environmental degradation. <#/>The World Bank has
 suggested that no time should be lost in putting in place, country by country, environmental action plans and in mobilizing broadly based population support for their effective implementation.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<#/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 Environment }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 here encompasses both the }{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 natural }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 and }{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 human }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 (so
cial) environment. <#/>The natural environment (of rivers, lakes, forests, wildlife) interacts with the human environment of people and their creations to}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057  }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
form the tota1 environment. <#/>In this interaction, human beings have throughout history striven to 
control the natural environment in order to serve their needs at any given period. <#/>It is in this context that governments design environmental policies aimed at ensuring that the natural environment serves the needs of society, while on the other hand
 ensuring that the latter does not destroy the former in the process.
\par <#/>Effective control of the environment requires well designed policies and infrastructure to facilitate the implementation of policies. <#/>Towards this end the state, as the most supre
me institution in any given society, is best placed to mobilize the necessary resources to design and ensure the implementation of national environmental policies. <#/>And in designing a national environment policy the underlying guideline should be that 
s
ustainable national development depends on the country's natural and human resources and how well they are managed and harmonized. <#/>This in turn reflects on the existing national policies and the level of public awareness of the need to conserve the na
tural resource environment.
\par <#/>The public should therefore be aware of the close dependence between their human and natural environment, that proper management of natural resources and conservation of the environment promotes opportunities for improved pub
lic health, nutrition, shelter, employment and generation of national wealth. <#/>The success of any programme (environmental or otherwise) largely depends on the target groups that are expected to participate and benefit from such a programme. <#/>How we
l
l those target groups participate in the implementation, how well their problems and the total environment of implementation is understood and incorporated in policy planning, largely determines the outcome of this effort. <#/>If women as a major target g
roup in the implementation of environmental programmes are not adequately addressed in policy planning, the environment effort is unlikely to succeed.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Environment policy in Kenya}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{In Kenya, the need to conserve the natural environment was re
cognized by the post-colonial government quite early after independence. <#/>This was reflected in Sessional paper no. 10 of 1965, 'African Socialism and its Application to Planning in Kenya', which set the basis for national planning in subsequent years.
 <#/>The paper summarized the government's environment policy position as follows. <#/>}{\b <quote_><X_>}{\v\f0 
The heritage of future generations depends on the adoption and implementation of policies designed to conserve natural resources and create the physical environme
nt in which progress can be enjoyed. <#/>The thoughtless destruction of forests, vegetation, wildlife and productive land threatens our future and must be brought under control. <#/>A national land use policy must be created and physical planning must be 
e
xtended from the towns and cities to districts and rural areas. <#/>The conservation of water supplies and productive land through the maintenance of forests and windbreaks, proper methods of land cultivation, and prevention of fire and flood must be acti
v
ely promoted by the government and the people must be fully informed and their cooperation ensured. <#/>The importance of wildlife to Kenya's future prosperity must be appreciated by everyone and national parks and reserves must be protected and preserved
'}{\b\f0 </X><quote/>}{\f0 .}{\v\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\f0\fs24\lang2057 
<#/>Despite this policy statement of intent, environmental issues were not placed high on the government's agenda during the 1960s. <#/>The government was preoccupied with the consolidation of the newly acquired political power and with promoting
 growth and stability of the economy. <#/>The government instituted measures to intensify export crop production and import substitution. <#/>These measures had major negative effects on the environment, and despite the government's promotion and reliance
 on the tourist industry as the second major foreign exchange earner after coffee and tea, environmental issues maintained a back seat during the 1960s.
\par <#/>Towards the end of the 1960s, however, several factors combined to force the Kenya government to mov
e away from rhetoric to more forthright action in regard to environmental management. <#/>For one, the government had come to realize that any long-term sustainable growth of its two major foreign exchange earners\emdash cash crops and tourism\emdash 
was highly dependen
t on good environmental management. <#/>Secondly, the effects of environmental degradation that had begun in the colonial era were becoming more manifest with increased population and rapid expansion in agricultural land use and deforestation. <#/>Thus, t
he need for more concerted efforts in soil and water conservation and afforestation became urgent. <#/><-/Futhermore>, issues of environmental management had by then become of major global concern and were being discussed in various international forums.

\par <#/>Thus in April 1971, the Kenya government set up an }{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 ad hoc }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
Working Committee on Human Environment to review knowledge of the environment and conservation requirements of Kenya. <#/>The report arising from the work of this Committee was presented to the 
United Nations Conference on Human Environment at Stockholm, in 1972, and may have contributed to the decision by the United Nations General Assembly in December 1972 to locate the newly created United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in Nairobi. <#/>
T
his was followed by a similar <-/siting> in Nairobi of the Environment Liaison Centre International (ELCI) in 1975 and the UN Centre on Human Settlements in 1978. <#/>The Kenya government responded to these sittings by setting up, within the Ministry of F
oreign Affairs, a Liaison Unit on environmental matters. <#/>The increased government concern over environmental conservation management was reflected in the 1974-1978 Development Plan, which stated: 
\par <#/>The Government recognises the conservation of the en
vironment is becoming increasingly important as the growth of population and the impact of development and technology bear on the capacity of the environment to sustain the use being made of it. <#/>The Government will therefore increase its conservation 
activities and, whenever possible, restore damaged environments. <#/>Initially this will involve enforcement of present conservation legislation, but in the long run, education to create a conservation minded population is the only lasting solution.

\par <#/>The
 <-/legislations> which were enforced by the 1974-78 Development Plan related to conservation of soil, water, wildlife, fish resources, national parks and control of grass fires, industrial pollution, maritime oil pollution, water apportionment and pestic
ides.
\par <#/>In addition to the emphasis placed on implementing existing environmental programmes and <-/legislations>, the plan also emphasized the need to identify environmental problems, suggest conservation measures and evaluate the impact on the social en
vironment of conservation programmes.
\par <#/>By the mid-1980s, the major environment problems had been identified and some public awareness on environmental issues had been created. <#/>Additional institutions and programmes had been created to cope with the 
rising degradation of the environment. <#/>Among these were the National Environment Secretariat (NES), as a co-ordinating department operating within the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. <#/>It was created to implement government policy, fa
c
ilitate environmental research and education and promote environmental health. <#/>One of the appointed tasks of NES was to facilitate a review of the existing laws to provide information leading to the presentation of a comprehensive Environment Bill to 
P
arliament. <#/>Other environmental institutions are the Presidential Commission and the National Tree-Planting Fund. <#/>Environmental education is also becoming institutionalized within the normal school curriculum at all levels, including university. <#
/
>At Moi University, for example, a school of environmental studies has been established to provide advanced environmental education, a forum for research deliberations and action on the environment by the professionals and society at large. <#/>In 1989 th
e government established another ministry <-/focussing> largely on environment management\emdash the Ministry of Reclamation and Development of Arid, Semi-arid and Wastelands.
\par <#/>By 1989, therefore, many <-/legislations> and environment institutions were in exist
ence and public awareness of environmental issues had also increased. <#/>And yet environmental degradation remained a serious problem. <#/>Juma observes in this regard that }{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 <quote_><X_>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
Despite the growth in environmental awareness, the capacity of the country
 to integrate environmental consideration into the development process is still limited. <#/>There is a disjunction between political pronouncements and institutional responses. <#/>Although the country has numerous laws which deal directly with environme
ntal conservation, their implementation has remained largely poor}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X><quote/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 .}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Thus the 1989-1993 Development Plan reflects this <-/dissolutionment> with past environment conservation efforts. <#/>In particular the plan expresses the view that 'In the past,
 economic analyses of development activities have often ignored the social costs leading to uncontrolled environmental degradation'. <#/>In other words, despite past policy rhetoric on the need to conserve the environment the praxis has been that short-te
rm individual, state and corporate economic gains have taken precedence over genuine environmental considerations.
\par <#/>As environmental degradation continues, Kenya, like many countries of the world, has also been undergoing an economic crisis that has led 
to government cutbacks on many social and economic programmes that previously used to be financed or subsidized by the government. <#/>Such programmes are in the area of health, education and environment. <#/>In regard to the latter, Kiriro and Juma note 
t
hat 'numerous conservation programmes planned in the mid- 1980s have not been implemented due to lack of funds. <#/>In addition, conservation activities that were previously undertaken by local authorities on behalf of the central government are threatene
d
 as a result of financial difficulties'. <#/>Indeed the 1984-88 Development Plan already stated quite clearly that 'since the economic environment during the Plan period will be characterised by shortages of financial resources, resources will not be avai
lable on a large enough scale to rehabilitate areas that have already suffered damage'.
\par <#/>The dilemma that now faces Kenya in a situation of economic and environmental crisis is how to reshape the environmental agenda to meet the rapidly rising human need
s while at the same time arresting the current trend of environmental degradation. <#/>In other words the major policy issue is how to achieve sustainable development without further environmental degradation. <#/>The current plan expresses this dilemma a
s follows }{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 <quote_><X_>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
The rapid growth of GPD will require the efficient use of technology, human resources and natural resource inputs such as land, water, minerals and forests on a sustainable basis. <#/>The implied developmental activities while conferring b
enefits to the individual and the nation have the tendency of generating diseconomies in the form of soil erosion arising from excessive cultivation or overgrazing, gaseous emissions, liquid effluent and toxic accumulations from industrial activities all 
of which pollute the environment}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X><quote/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 .}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057\super 
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>As a demonstration of how seriously the government is now taking the issue of environmental degradation, the 1989-1993 plan devoted some 30 pages to discussing sound environment management consistent with growth requirements.

\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{Kenya has come a long way since 1985 on matters of envir
onment, as demonstrated by policy developments, creation of institutions and programmes and the increased sensitization and mobilization of the public These positive developments notwithstanding, Kenya is still grappling with even more complex problems wh
i
ch demand new solutions and alternative strategies. <#/>The seriousness of environmental problems in the late 1980s in part arises from past mistakes made in policy planning which failed to fully integrate environmental considerations in the total or sect
oral development plans. <#/>Most importantly, it arises from policy planning that failed to address the major target group in environmental planning and implementation\emdash the women of Kenya.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Women and the environment}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>There are many important r
easons why women are so central to environmental conservation and management. <#/>Firstly, Kenyan women, both individually and in groups, have historically tended to be more active in self-help community initiatives than men. <#/>In many self-help rural p
rojects, including environmental conservation, many of the active participants are women. <#/>This reality has been confirmed by many studies, including those conducted in Kitui District, where 95 per cent of the <ea/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 mwethya }{
\f0\fs24\lang2057 group participants in water and soil conservation projects were women. <#/>Men who had not migrated to urban areas were found to participate mainly in those projects where they were paid a wage.
\par <#/>Secondly, women in Kenya contribute the greatest amount of the necessary resources for s
ociety's subsistence and national economic growth. <#/>Needless to say, agriculture is the mainstay of the Kenyan economy, and women are the major food producers both for subsistence and for marketing. <#/>Kenya cannot therefore afford any environmental d
e
gradation that negatively affects food productivity. <#/>And yet degradation has been allowed to occur in the food sector. <#/>Development policies have tended to favour the male-dominated non-food cash-crop sector, with most of the agricultural inputs, e
x
tension services and credit being directed to this sector. <#/>With increasing soil degradation poor rural women and their families have become impoverished as they now have to buy much of the food they previously used to produce for themselves. <#/>In th
is connection, national current estimates show that about 64 per cent of the total expenditure of smallholders is devoted to purchasing food and non-alcoholic beverages.
\par <#/>The goal of national food self-sufficiency can never be attained unless the governm
ent begins to restructure policies and development plans in a manner that places women at the centre of agricultural productivity and environmental conservation. <#/>In other words, the food question cannot be separated from the environmental question. <#
/>Even global predictions show that there is an increasing global food scarcity occurring alongside an increasing environmental deterioration.
\par <#/>In addition to the centrality of women in food and other agricultural production, women are also the custodian
s of the family health environment. <#/>They are the nutritionists, the nurses, the maintainers of domestic hygiene. <#/>Women are also the educational trainers of the young, as well as the energy and shelter providers. <X_>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
<#/>In a nutshell, in their multiple
 roles, women literally carry the entire human environment on their backs. <#/>In so doing, they are interacting very closely with the natural environment. <#/>This means that almost any issue of environmental management and use has a direct or indirect l
inkage with many of the human survival and national development activities that women engage in on a daily basis. <#/>Women are important environmental conservation forces, not only because of the }{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 positive }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
contribution they have made and continue to make towards the conservation of the environment, but also because of the }{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 negative }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
impact the environment has on them and vice versa. <#/>In this respect, it is important to note that it is the poor, the majority of whom are women, who are likely to feel most acu
tely the effects of environmental degradation. <#/>They are also likely to be the ones who may not only be unable to contribute effectively to environmental conservation but may even contribute (unintentionally) to further degradation. <#/>Often, policy m
akers fail to establish this important linkage between poverty and environmental degradation and the vicious cycle inherent in that situation.
\par <#/>It is also the poor women who feel most acutely the impact of government cutbacks on social amenities (health,
 education and social amenities) under the Structural Adjustment Programmes (SAP). <#/>The implementation of SAP in Kenya has taken the form of cost-sharing, which only makes sense to those with high incomes. <#/>The majority of Kenyans are poor and hence
 do not have the financial ability to pay the required user charges. <#/>The impact of implementation of SAP has therefore resulted in a deterioration in the human environment, with serious implications for the poor, especially women and children.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\v\f0 <#/>}{\v The i
mpact of women on the environment and vice versa, becomes very critical in looking for solutions to environmental degradation in the context of underdevelopment. <#/>Indeed, if the quality of human resources largely determines the pace and nature of devel
o
pment, then women become a critical motor not only for environmental management but for national development efforts in general. <#/>It then means that the role of women in policy planning and implementation cannot be ignored. <#/>But as outlined below, t
he gender question has remained marginal to development planning and policy making in Kenya.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v <h> <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 The forgotten factor}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>Nowhere are women mentioned, let alone acknowledged, in the environmental policy statements and discussions contained in offic
ial Kenyan government documents. <#/>The exception is President Moi who acknowledges the role of women's groups in environmental management.
\par <#/>It is not particularly surprising that such an important policy omission has been made. <#/>This reality is qui
te consistent with the country's national development policies which have only recently begun to acknowledge gender as an issue in development planning and implementation. <#/>A close look at the post-colonial history of national policies and programmes i
n Kenya will quickly show this to be the trend up to 1975\emdash 
the end of the UN Women's Decade. <#/>Prior to 1975, the government acted as if the gender question as a policy issue was of no relevance to Kenya. <#/>National development plans and other major poli
cy documents talked of rural producers, agriculturalists, farmers and peasants and failed to acknowledge that the majority of these are women. <#/>Even the provocation contained in the 1972 ILO report, }{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
Employment, Incomes and Equality, }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 did not deter the go
vernment from its position that there was no problem of access and equity for women in Kenya. <#/>Since 1975, however, Kenya like other United Nation's members has heeded the General Assembly's demand that member states promote policies for the advancemen
t of women, establish women's national <-/machineries> and strengthen existing women's organizations. <#/>Kenya accordingly established the Women's Bureau in 1976 which was to serve as the govern\-
ment's instrument for the expansion and co-ordination of the women's group movement in the country. <#/>Additionally, the government decided to strengthen and give active support to the oldest and largest women's NGO, <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
Maendeleo <ea/>ya <ea/>Wanawake, }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 established in 1952. <#/>In 1987 this merged with the ruling 
party KANU and has hence changed its name to KANU-MWYO. <#/>This women's organization has increasingly assumed many of the functions originally performed by the Women's Bureau and the National Council of Women of Kenya (NCWK). <#/>NCWK was formed in 1964 
to be the national co-ordinating organization for all women NGOs (including MWYO) in Kenya.}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057\super 
\par <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 In addition to strengthening selected women's organizations, President Moi has since early 1986 appointed a number of women to some important public positions. <
#/>At the end of January 1986, the President appointed seven women to senior executive posts in government parastatals. <#/>It was also during the mid-1980s that a number of women were promoted to senior diplomatic positions and as judges to the High Cour
t
. <#/>The most significant appointment perhaps was made in 1987 when the first woman Permanent Secretary was appointed in the Ministry of Commerce. <#/>The President also appointed several women to sit on various parastatal boards. <#/>These appointments 
a
re a step in the right direction. <#/>Despite this progress the policy position on gender inequalities has not altered dramatically. <#/>Government policy position remains that gender inequalities are non-existent in Kenya. <#/>Women have accordingly been
 cautioned to desist from making demands for rights and representation which they are already enjoying.
\par <#/>Although there is as yet no systematic Women in Development policy in Kenya, government documents (national development plans, manifestos, sessional 
papers) have only recently begun to make scattered references and acknowledgements to women's roles in development. <#/>Since 1985, women's issues have also been accorded some significant visibility in the media; a few national seminars <-/focussing> on w
omen have been organized and public awareness of gender has increased.
\par <#/>In general, however, the women of Kenya as in many other parts of the world, remain marginalized, are even more overworked than in the past and are still structurally subordinated to men. <#/>Gender inequalities in opportuni\-
ties and access to resources are still very prevalent in Kenya. <#/>Despite women's centrality in food and cash crop production, the majority do not own land or implements of production. <#/>Modern technological inputs, exten\-
sion services and credit facilities are often directed to male farmers.
\par <#/>Women are still marginalized in formal employment, and their share of total wage employment has only slightly increased in the last ten years, from 17.5 per cent in 19
81, to 21.2 per cent in 1987. <#/>Similarly, the shelter and amenities situation is generally worse for women than for men. <#/>In a 1988 study it was found that the majority of women in Kenya's urban areas lived in very poor housing, with only a small mi
nority owning decent housing. <#/>Table 9.1 illustrates this situation.
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <&/>table 9.1
\par }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>The same study reveals that as far as provision of amenities is concerned, by 1988, only 26 per cent of urban women occupiers had access to piped water compared to 37 
per cent of men occupiers. <#/><-/Futhermore>, 46 per cent of women depended on communal water source, compared to 36 per cent of the male occupiers. <#/>Similarly, 47 per cent of women occupiers were using pit latrines as compared to 40 per cent of the m
en and only 15 per cent of women had access to private flush latrines compared to 25 per cent of the men. <#/>Additionally, only 19 per cent of women had private-indoor bathing facilities as compared to 30 per cent of men.}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057\super 

\par <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Gender inequalities are also a
pparent in the area of politics. <#/>Despite the fact that political participation by men and women on equal terms, including standing for elective office, is guaranteed in Kenya's constitution, sociocultural, ideological and economic factors have conspir
e
d to keep the majority of women out of political decision making positions. <#/>Indeed, women of Kenya remain grossly under-represented at all levels of decision making, especially in state and party hierarchy And yet, it is in the arena of politics where
 
most of the important decisions affecting the entire society are made. <#/>Since Kenya became independent almost 30 years ago, there have been few women holding political office. <#/>For example, between 1969 to 1983, available data reveal an extremely lo
w level of women representation in parliamentary politics.}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057\super 
\par <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
Even in the last decade of the 20th century, women's political participation remains low at the level of decision making. <#/>As of 1990, there are only two elected women MPs and one nominated woman MP out of a total of 188. <#/>Of the three women MPs, on
l
y one sits on the front bench as an Assistant Minister for Culture and Social Services, while the other women are backbenchers. <#/>The position of assistant minister is the highest position a woman has ever held in Kenya's political establishment. <#/>Fu
rthermore, in KANU, women have consistently played a rather secondary role, despite the existence of a women's wing.
\par <#/>While the situation of Kenyan women in employment and education has significantly improved since Independence, women are still invisible
 in important policy making positions. <#/>And the few women who have managed to break the barriers of male political dominance often do not occupy central positions in policy making. <#/>Under these political circumstances, it is no wonder that women hav
e been left out on matters of environmental policy.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\v\f0 <#/>}{\v 
Significant gender inequalities exist in the physical and human environment aspects of men and women. <#/>The latter are quite clearly disadvantaged. <#/>There is urgent need therefore for restructured
 environmental policy and greater involvement of women in development planning. <#/>In particular, development policy should seek to empower women as a strategy of attaining national environment conservation objectives. <#/>Harassing and punishing women w
ho are deemed to be liabilities rather than assets of environmental conservation aggravates rather than solves the problem.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v <h> <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Empowering women for environmental conservation}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\v\f0 <#/>}{\v The United Nations noted in respect of the impact of the environment
 on women that environmental degradation has already pushed great numbers of poor women into marginal environments where critically low levels of water supplies, shortages of fuel, overutilization of grazing and arable lands and population density have de
prived them of their livelihood. <#/>Most seriously affected are women in drought-afflicted ASAL areas and in urban slums and squatter settlements. <#/>These women need alternative means of livelihood.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 The above statement largely summarizes the situatio
n in Africa and especially Kenya, which has one of the highest population growth rates in the world, as well as having more than three-quarters of its land mass qualifying as ASAL. <#/>In addition, the crisis of the 1980s and the accompanying structural a
djustment programmes have pushed many poor women to a situation of desperation and sometimes dehumanizing existence as they struggle to keep themselves and their dependent households alive.
\par <#/>Ironically, while these poor women employ the only survival str
ategies they know, they are often blamed for contributing to the degradation of the natural and social environment. <#/>In the urban areas, these are the poor women who live in squalid slum conditions at the margins of towns and cities. <#/>Usually, such 
w
omen have no permanent formal employment and hence their livelihood derives from the informal sector of the economy. <#/>Many engage in activities which are, in the view of government officials, a health hazard and hence are actively discouraged through h
a
rassment and outright punishment. <#/>For example, women who earn their livelihood through hawking on street corners in Nairobi are harassed by city commission officials, who usually confiscate their goods without compensation and extract money fines from
 
them. <#/>The business of prostitution is even more precarious. <#/>Apart from the psychological impact of being looked upon by society as immoral carriers of dangerous diseases, including AIDS, female prostitutes are arrested and end up in jail if unable
 
to pay the fine imposed upon them. <#/>While many of the activities of the poor urban women may not be considered environmentally desirable, the government should view this as a problem whose solution lies in providing them with alternative means of livel
ihood.
\par <#/>In the rural areas, poor women may contribute to environmental degradation without intending to do so. <#/>Being poor, they may not be able to afford fuelwood for their cooking purposes. <#/>They may, for example, result to the use of dry cowdung
 as fuel. <#/>These are also the women who usually cultivate very small patches of land and cannot even afford modern inputs in the form of fertilizers and pesticides. <#/>Consequently, constant cultivation of the same piece of land over time leads to soi
l
 exhaustion and low yields. <#/>Furthermore, non-availability of fuelwood also leads many poor families to feed on non-nutritious foods which do not require cooking such as bread and soda, which in turn leads to poor health. <#/>Thus the vicious cycle of 
p
overty becomes complete and is manifested in poor health, low crop yields and soil degradation. <#/>In this vicious cycle, the constant struggle for survival leaves women with hardly any time or energy for participating effectively in any community enviro
nment projects.
\par <#/>In view of this situation, therefore, it is not enough for the government to direct that soil and water conservation programmes be given high priority in development planning. <#/>The success of such a directive would first require the c
reation of an enabling human environment for the targeted labour force\emdash 
women. <#/>The government would need to provide social amenities and support services that would enable women to participate effectively. <#/>Past environmental approaches and strategie
s need to change to accommodate the needs of women. <#/>Women can no longer be assumed to be a convenience and readily available labour force to be used for environmental and other development programmes. <#/>Women have increasingly taken up more roles th
a
n they used to and as a result are even more impoverished and marginalized. <#/>The few gains they attained during the Women's Decade have now been eroded by Structural Adjustment Programmes. <#/>Environmentally, poor women now stand as the most endangere
d
 human species, as they live and work in marginal and hazardous environments, whether in rural or urban areas. <#/>Rather than ostracizing them, as has sometimes happened in the past, policy restructuring should focus on finding alternatives for these wom
en. <#/>It is only when this female majority of the Kenyan population acquires the power to ensure survival of self and family that they can fully appreciate and be effectively mobilized for environmental conservation and other development programmes.

\par <#/>H
owever, it is not only the poor women that government development efforts should address. <#/>Even the few who are middle class and/or highly educated can be an important asset for environmental efforts. <#/>Education alone equips such women with the nece
s
sary skills for high level decision making and development planning. <#/>They are also the calibre of women who could effectively carry out relevant research on issues that affect women; some of them could also serve as extension officers for the predomin
a
ntly female agriculturalists, who in the past have been deprived of such services by male extension officers. <#/>They can then serve as trainers of other women, thus transmitting relevant skills and awareness of environmental and other development issues
.
\par <#/>Highly trained and skilled women with commitment are therefore well placed to organize other women around environmental activities of direct relevance to their immediate needs and have an empowering component for participants. <#/>There are already so
me good examples of this kind of mobilization of women by other women, whereby environmental programmes have also been made to meet the more basic needs of the women participants.
\par <#/>Cases in point are the energy project of KANU-MWYO and the Green Belt Mo
vement. <#/>The significance and importance of these two projects does not lie so much in the quantitative level of conservation achievements that have been made through them. <#/>Rather, their importance lies in their ability to link the objective of nat
u
ral environment conservation with human environment conservation. <#/>Indeed, the improvement of the quality of life of the women and their families is high on the agenda of these two projects. <#/>For example, Maendeleo's energy project, which involves t
he dissemination of energy-saving stoves to rural women, has as its major objective the improvement of the living and working conditions of the rural population.
\par <#/>Similarly, the Green Belt Movement's major objective is not simply to plant trees for the s
pecific goals of afforestation and fuel energy provision; the movement's major objective is to empower women through their environmental activities. <#/>The Green Belt project aims at the development of a positive image of women, the argument being that,

\par <
#/>Development issues provide a good forum in which women can be creative, assertive and effective leaders and the Green Belt Movement, being a development project, provided the forum through which to promote a positive image of women. <#/>The myth of mal
e
 superiority can only be demolished with shining examples of female achievement against which nobody could argue intelligently. <#/>The Green Belt Movement and many other rural projects initiated by women, are exemplary examples of female achievement whic
h should serve at least to encourage women to form a positive image of themselves.}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057\super 
\par }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Other objectives of the Green Belt Movement are to train women as cultivators of seedlings to create public environmental awareness, to promote environmental education in
 schools, to create employment for the handicapped and school-leavers in their own communities, to promote water and soil conservation and to make rural communities self-sufficient in fuelwood.
\par <#/>The Green Belt Movement remains a shining national example
 of women's achievements in environmental conservation. <#/>The tree planting programme and the many related benefits women participants derive from this environmental participation underlines its importance. <#/>President Moi is on record as having cited
 
the GBM as one of the few women's programmes actively and effectively participating in environmental conservation efforts. <#/>Given the urgent need for mobilizing national support for environmental conservation, the country cannot afford to demoralize or
 discourage any group involved in conservation work, however modest its achievements.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 A need for policy restructuring}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>Because of the centrality of women in environmental conservation and other development issues, their concerns should be in
tegrated in policy making and implementation. <#/>This calls for a restructuring of existing policies. <#/>There are numerous policy changes that could be affected in favour of women.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\v\f0 <#/>}{\v Firstly, it is important, both for democratic and development reason
s, that women be involved at all levels of the decision making process, especially in those areas that directly affect their lives and where they are the major policy <-/implementors>. <#/>In this regard, women are major actors in almost all the key socio
-
economic areas of development: agriculture, health, education, technology. <#/>All these socio-economic issues are closely linked to natural environment concerns. <#/>Thus, women should be involved in the designing and implementation of all development an
d environmental policies.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
In this connection, the surest way for women to influence policy making on these issues is by striving for greater political participation and representation in the legislature. <#/>It is in this legislative arena where most of
 the important decisions affecting the entire society are made. <#/>It is therefore in this arena where women can ensure that matters of environment, agriculture, health, education, technology and law are debated with women's perspectives and concerns.

\par <#/
>While it would be unrealistic to expect immediate gender parity in political decision making, there are a number of policy interventions that can be made to facilitate greater female participation in political decision making. <#/>These include ensuring 
t
hat at least 50 per cent of the nominated members of parliament are women and appointing at least 50 per cent of the incumbent women MPs to head important non-social welfare ministries, such as finance, agriculture or science and technology. <#/>Also, wom
e
n should be appointed to executive positions within the ruling party hierarchy at branch and national levels, and women's units should be created in key ministries with women as managers to ensure that women's needs and aspirations are adequately addresse
d in policy making.
\par <#/>The extent to which the policy restructuring suggested above can be implemented will largely depend on the political willingness of those already in powerful positions. <#/>In this regard, one can only hope that many of the Kenyan po
licy makers do not share the same negative attitude towards women's political participation as that expressed by an assistant minister in the Office of the President, to the effect that women should only play a subordinate role in politics. <#/>In his vie
w, women should never be permitted 'to the highest levels of political power' as they 'are dangerous when they come to power'. <#/>He also believes that it would be inconsistent with African culture for a woman to become a president of an African country.
}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057\super 
\par <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
Secondly, policy restructuring should also address the problem of poor women and the impact on them of environmental degradation and structural adjustment policies. <#/>The government should review the current adjustment programmes and design new ones, 
taking into account women's needs and the support services they need to participate effectively in environmental and other national development activities. <#/>In this regard, even the World Bank experts, who only a few years ago advised African governmen
t
s to drastically cut back on social expenditures and subsidies, have now reversed their policy position on this issue. <#/>The Bank is now talking of a 'human centred development strategy' and of 'short term specific interventions (by governments) such as
 food subsidies or employment and income schemes targeted on vulnerable groups'.}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057\super 
\par <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 In designing new policies to reverse the negative impact of SAPs, emphasis should be put on improving poor women's employment prospects and ensuring women's access and cont
rol over productive resources such as land, technology and credit facilities. <#/>The adjustment measures should also include labour- energy- and time-saving devices for women. <#/>Such measures should pay particular attention to women's needs to have clo
s
e and easy accessibility to water and fuel sources, child care centres and health clinics. <#/>In regard to fuel provision, energy-saving stoves should be considered as only a short-term measure, since they are dependent on wood and may eventually beat th
e goal of afforestation efforts. <#/>In the long term therefore, the policy objective should be to attain nation-wide electrification and completely discourage all wood-based fuel use.
\par <#/>Policy restructuring should also pay particular attention to the gen
eral deterioration in the health situation especially since the emergence of the deadly killing AIDS and the re-emergence of highly contagious diseases such as meningitis. <#/>The government needs to significantly increase its health and social amenities 
budget, which has been drastically cut since the early 1980s.}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057\super 26 }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 The problem of poor women in prostitution needs to be tackled as one way of arresting the deteriorating health environment.
\par <#/>Thirdly, as women's groups and organizations have historically pa
rticipated in environmental conservation, a concerted effort should be made to step up material and moral support to all women's groups in the country that are engaged in conservation efforts, however modest their achievements. <#/>In the past, government
 
expenditure on women's group activities as a percentage of its total national expenditure has been extremely low. <#/>For instance, between 1978 and 1982 government allocations to women's programmes were 0.1 per cent of total expenditures for that period.
 
<#/>Furthermore, government grants to women's groups dropped significantly from 3.3 million Kshs. in 1986, to 2.6 million in 1987. <#/>This expenditure should increase in recognition of the important contribution women's groups are making towards national
 development efforts. <#/>With more encouragement and support, women can become the most viable instrument for mobilizing the popula\-tion, especially in rural areas, for environmental conservation activities.
\par <#/><-/Fourthly>, given the government's own objective of food self-sufficiency and the interrelatedness between food production and environmental conser\-vation, affirmative action should now be taken to redirect production re\-
sources to the food sector. <#/>Needless to say, in the food sector, as in other ar\-eas of national development, women are only pleading for an enabling envi\-ronment to allow them effective participation and performance.
\par <#/>Finally, public awareness training on matters of the environment should continue and be accelerated to ensur
e that by the end of this century, every Kenyan fully understands the close linkage between the natural and human environment, the dangers posed by environmental degradation and the major strategies of arresting and reversing environmental deterioration.

\par <h> <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Conclusion}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>The close linkage and interaction between the human and natural environ\-ment shapes the development process. <#/>In particular, there is close linkage between poverty and environmental degradation. <#/>The majority of Kenyan wom
en, by virtue of their low social status and the multiple roles they play in the development process, are thus an important factor in addressing the environmental problem. <#/>In view of this, development efforts and environ\-
mental ones in particular will 
not succeed unless women become an integral part of that development. <#/>The creation of an enabling environment for women should therefore not be viewed as a concession to women but as a necessary strategy for attaining sustainable development. <#/>This
 is the devel\-opment where the sustenance and basic needs satisfaction becomes the or\-ganizing principle for natural resource use, as opposed to exploitation of resources for profit and capital accumulation by the wealthy minority in soci\-
ety at the expense of the majority.}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Nzomo, Maria (1992) \lquote Policy impacts on women and environment\rquote 
\par In Shanyisa A. Khasiani (ed) }{\b\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Groundwork}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  ACTS Press, Nairobi, pp. 101-116</&>
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par W2A037K
\par <I> <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Sustainable development and economic policy in Kenya}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Introduction}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>Africa has in recent years been a subject of intensive economic and ecological studies conducted by local and international researchers. <#/>Numerous methods have been used in the studies, and the divergence in approaches has in some cases m
ade it difficult for policy makers to identify suitable policy options. <#/>These studies have been prompted by the deepening economic and ecological crises, as partially manifested in widespread famine across the continent. <#/>Some of these problems are
 
manifested in sporadic famines and ecological degradation. <#/>Concern over environmental issues has in recent years been given renewed impetus by the growing awareness that the release of carbon dioxide and other gases into the atmosphere will lead to hi
gher average temperatures that will alter the current patterns of the distribution of biological resources as well as economic activity in many countries.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{Most of the studies produced on Africa tend to present a gloomy picture. <#/>A few studies, howeve
r, are starting to focus on ways in which the continent can find new directions and raise the social conditions of its population to new levels of human welfare. <#/>In addition to general economic questions, the future of the African environment is also 
s
tarting to be debated seriously at various forums, especially its linkages with the development process. <#/>Some of the concerns are reflected in the findings and recommendations of the report of the World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED)
 
chaired by Norwegian Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland. <#/>The WCED was set up by the UN General Assembly in 1983 to re-examine the critical environment and development problems, formulate realistic proposals to solve them and ensure that human progre
ss can be sustained through development without undermining the environment. <#/>The world is now preparing to discuss a comprehensive agenda for action at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development to be held in Brazil in 1992.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<#/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 The Br
undtland Report has put down a number of crucial recommendations which need to be implemented so as to achieve sustainable economic growth over the long-run. <#/>What is important at the moment is to examine the main factors which will limit the implement
ation of the recommendations. <#/>The report itself envisages some fundamental changes in the current institutional organization at the local, national and international levels in order to achieve sustainable development.
\par <#/>What seems to be crucial, howev
er, is that there are clear differences between the report's findings, which have a long-term orientation, and some of the dominant policies that guide resource utilization and economic development in Africa. <#/>These differences are not simply instituti
o
nal; they reflect fundamental epistemological divergences in the way different schools of thought view the world. <#/>Amid these debates, African leaders are calling for urgent measures to reduce the rate of environmental degradation and raise the living 
standards.
\par <#/>One of the main problems, however, is that there is no systematic collection of information on natural resource management available in the African countries. <#/>The aim of this chapter is to present a partial status review which will indica
te the kinds of issues that Kenya should research in order to maintain systematic information collection. <#/>The chapter therefore presents the basis of a long-term research agenda which reflects the relationships between natural resource management and 
economic policy in the context of the notions of sustainable development presented in the Brundtland report.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Economic policies and environment }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{
One of the most significant changes in public awareness in recent years has been the growing realization that long-term economic development is dependent on maintaining the integrity of the environment. <#/>Environmental issues were for a long time discus
sed mainly by those trained in certain fields. <#/>The situation has changed; these issues have now been brought to the mainstream of politics, especially following the personal involvement of President Daniel arap Moi in conservation activities.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<#/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 The ra
pid growth in environmental awareness in Kenya has by far outstripped the capacity of existing economic theories to integrate environmental considerations into the planning process and national accounts. <#/>Prospects for long-term growth are now viewed a
s
 being dependent to a large measure on effective environmental management. <#/>This is important for countries such as Kenya, which are dependent on the natural resource base for most economic activities. <#/>Kenya's economic fortunes rely on the ability 
of its natural resource base to support the agricultural products necessary for local use and export.
\par <#/>The country depends on a small section of its land for most of its agricultural production. <#/>Only about 17-18 per cent of the land is arable, the re
st being arid or semi-arid. <#/>This arable land supports nearly all the major cash crops, 80 percent of the population and most of the indigenous forests. <#/>Kenya has recently created the Ministry of Reclamation and Development of Arid, Semi-arid Areas
 
and Wastelands which focuses on rehabilitating the arid and semi-arid lands (ASALs). <#/>The ecological basis for Kenya's economy is delicate and requires careful management. <#/>In this respect, the integration of environmental considerations into develo
p
ment strategies is a crucial matter of national welfare and long-term survival. <#/>Policies which do not take such considerations seriously are likely to lead to environmental degradation and possible reductions in economic output. <#/>Such factors may h
ave negative social and political effects. <#/>It is in this respect that the issue of natural resource management should be viewed in the context of long-term national security.
\par <#/>The challenge facing Kenya is how well environmental considerations are li
kely to be integrated into macro-economic policies and development plans. <#/>Such efforts would be part of the changing perceptions on the links between environment and development. <#/>International response to environmental problems represents a major 
s
tep in the growth of public awareness. <#/>What started as a movement of concerned citizens in a few countries in the early 1960s has become a major aspect of current attempts to change the global patterns of development and lifestyles. <#/>Much of the ch
a
nge is owed to the events that culminated in the 1972 Stockholm United Nations Conference on the Human Environment. <#/>Concern over the environmental effects of the post-World World II economic boom became a major item on the agenda for international dis
cussions. <#/>Since then, humankind has become more conscious of its ability to govern the evolutionary process.
\par <#/>The Stockholm legacy includes the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and a large number of international and national organizations
 working on environmental issues. <#/>The world took stock of its environmental conditions and trends in 1982 when it started preparing the ground for the formation of the World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED), under the leadership of Nor
w
egian Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland. <#/>The WCED rekindled the Stockholm spirit and reshaped the environmental agenda to reflect the need to meet current human needs without undermining the requirements of future generations. <#/>This alternative 
agenda is summarized by the phrase 'sustainable development'.
\par <#/>The sustainable development agenda has become a major source of insight and inspiration for a number of international organizations. <#/>Various institutions, as well as governments, are star
ting to re-shape their thinking to reflect the WCED agenda. <#/>Some international donor agencies are also changing their development assistance policies to conform to the agenda. <#/>On the whole, the current changes in international development assistan
c
e and the introduction of structural adjustment programmes requires a fresh look at the relationship between environment and development. <#/>Countries such as Kenya, which depend on agriculture and wildlife for their economic growth, need to monitor the 
long-term effects of some of their current macro-economic policies to ensure that they do not undercut their basis for sustained growth.
\par <#/>Kenya's macro-economic policies have undergone major changes in recent years. <#/>The post-colonial optimism and the
 growth-oriented policies led to a number of problems in the economic structure. <#/>The industrial sector experienced over-investment while agricultural production was maintained with heavy subsidies. <#/>Excessive government investment was associated wi
t
h the creation of monopolies and unnecessary protection. <#/>Although some of these policies helped promote local industrial growth and the expansion of smallholders, they were also associated with major distortions in the economy and choice of inefficien
t
 productive units. <#/>Recently, the government has introduced policies aimed at restructuring the economy. <#/>Most of these have been introduced under the structural adjustment programmes promoted by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (I
MF).
\par <#/>The policy changes have been introduced to deal with problems such as the debt burden. <#/>The external debt ratio to GNP rose from 19.5 per cent in 1964 to 35.8 per cent in 1987. <#/>The need to improve the balance of payments plays a significant 
role in the way Kenya's economic policies are formulated. <#/>This, in turn, affects the ability of the country to introduce policies which emphasize sustainable development. <#/>The economic difficulties facing Kenya forces the country to formulate polic
ies which emphasize short-term measures aimed at dealing with immediate problems such as budgetary allocation, improving foreign reserves and servicing external debts.
\par <#/>Sustainable development, on the other hand, requires long-term planning and involves 
some variables which are difficult to quantify. <#/>Conventional notions such as allocative efficiency are inadequate when dealing with long-term environmental questions. <#/>To supplement this short-term orientation, the government emphasizes long-term r
esource conservation, environmental education and technical training as ways to deal with ecological and economic problems.
\par <#/>Kenya's economic performance and management has been one of the best in Africa, despite major sources of instability such as the 
fluctuating commodity prices and the debt problem. <#/>Decreasing imports have offset declining payments from exports and helped to reduce the balance of payments deficit. <#/>The balance of payments over the 1981-85 period showed large overall deficits w
h
ich were offset mainly by heavy borrowing from the IMF and reducing gross reserves. <#/>The increase in world coffee prices in 1985-86 favoured the balance of payments, but imports over the period also increased. <#/>Kenya was one of the first countries t
o
 accept IMF conditionality. <#/>As a result, the country started cutting back on investment and reducing its equity participation in investment projects to curb public expenditure. <#/>It should be noted that economic fortunes in Kenya were adversely affe
cted by the 1984 drought which forced the country to import grain. <#/>On the whole, the Kenyan economy has been well-managed despite external pressures.
\par <#/>The dominant fiscal and monetary policies pursued by Kenya have been formulated in line with the st
abilization and structural adjustment policies proposed by the World Bank and IMF. <#/>Stabilization measures encompass demand management policies which control domestic budgetary trends and improve the balance of payments. <#/>Exchange rate devaluation, 
real wage reductions and positive interest rate realization are some of the measures introduced to restore macro-economic imbalances.
\par <#/>To complement these policies, structural adjustment programmes are accompanied by measures to improve the incentive sys
tem, raise the efficiency of pricing mechanisms, promote investments and restore medium-term and long-term growth. <#/>Some of the current fiscal and monetary policies introduced in Kenya in recent years have direct or indirect implications for formulatin
g sustainable development strategies. <#/>Taxation is currently seen as a way of raising revenue, encouraging saving and investment, promoting rural-urban balance, improving the revenue-expenditure ratio and extending structural adjustment measures.

\par <#/>The
 effects of some of these policies vary depending on whether the policies are short-term in nature (aimed at stabilization) or long-term (aimed at structural adjustment). <#/>Some policies, especially those related to eliminating subsidies, may have short
-term benefits especially if they reflect the relative scarcity of the resources being used. <#/>But reducing subsidies may also worsen income disparities and therefore contribute to the degradation of the environment by the poorer members of society.

\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 
<#/>One of the measures introduced in Kenya in recent years has been to reduce the central government budget deficit. <#/>The main tool for this exercise has been demand management through curtailing public expenditure instead of mobilizing revenue. <#/>T
h
is strategy has meant that government resources devoted to conservation have not expanded as expected. <#/>Numerous conservation programmes planned in the mid-1980s have not been implemented due to the lack of funds. <#/>In addition, conservation activiti
es that were previously undertaken by local authorities on behalf of the central government are threatened as a result of financial difficulties.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\f0\fs24\lang2057 <X_>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Several measures have been introduced in recent years to compensate for the reduced allocation of resources
 to conservation efforts. <#/>Some of these are self-help soil and water conservation activities. <#/>The new measures aimed at budget rationalization are also likely to have long-term environmental effects. <#/>The government is currently putting emphasi
s
 on investment projects with high productivity and cost effectiveness. <#/>Decisions on previous investment projects did not seriously consider environmental measures despite the fact that such requirements have been incorporated into the government's cri
teria for investment.
\par <#/>Pricing policies also affect the environment. <#/>In situations where the environmental effects of producing certain commodities are not costed, the goods would be underpriced. <#/>This seems to be the case for industrial and agric
ultural commodities in Kenya. <#/>The cost of farm produce does not include the costs of soil erosion, soil acidification, pesticide pollution and other environmental effects. <#/>The pricing of various amenities associated with tourism does not reflect t
h
e need for conservation. <#/>In addition, tourism is not only dependent on nature for its existence, but the industry also views the natural environment as a sink for its waste. <#/>This is reflected in recent reports of wildlife deaths resulting from the
 consumption of garbage dumped in the parks by the tourist hotels and lodges themselves. <#/>Garbage dumped in the ocean is also becoming a major problem in places such as Lamu and may soon threaten the very economic foundation of the town.
\par <#/>One of the m
ost significant developments in Kenya in recent years has been the rapid growth of environmental awareness. <#/>Political developments in Kenya in the last 80 years have been largely influenced by issues relating to land and the environment. <#/>As a resu
l
t, environmental awareness has been part of the political process. <#/>It is notable that Kenya recognized the role of natural resource conservation soon after independence, as reflected in Sessional Paper No. 10 of 1965, 'African Socialism and its Applic
a
tion to Planning in Kenya', which set the basis for national planning in the subsequent decades. <#/>Then, as now, the most important sources of foreign exchange were cash crops and tourism; both of which are heavily dependent on environmental management 
for their long-term sustainability.
\par <#/>Following independence, Kenya was pre-occupied with increasing agricultural output and setting up factories. <#/>Environmental issues were not taken seriously although the government promoted investment in the tourist
 industry. <#/>By the late 1960s the effects of soil loss were becoming obvious, especially following the expansion of agriculture. <#/>Widespread hunting and poaching led to a ban on hunting in 1977. <#/>The rising environmental awareness was given new i
m
petus with the location of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in Nairobi following the Stockholm conference. <#/>The formation of the National Environment Secretariat (NES) in 1972 and the location of the Environment Liaison Centre Internatio
nal (ELCI) in Nairobi in the mid-1970s added to the growing number of institutions promoting environmental awareness.}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Calestous Juma, }{\b\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 African Centre for Technology Studies, Nairobi and International Federation of Institutes for Advanced Study
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 From: Kiriro, Amos/Calestous Juma, eds. (1991). }{\b\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Gaining Ground}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 . Nairobi: ACTS Press. pp. 51-56</&>
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par W2A038K
\par <I> <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Indigenous knowledge and ecological management}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Introduction}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>Modern day natural resource policy makers tend to pay little at
tention to what traditional cultures have to offer. <#/>They prefer to base management practices on strategies and techniques which have worked in other settings but may not be suited to the local conditions. <#/>Yet within the African rural setting, ecol
ogical conditions, social institutions and available technologies are comparable to what prevailed in those regions 100 years ago.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{This is even more evident in the semi-arid areas of Africa. <#/>In Kenya, these areas have essentially been the handmaiden
 to the rest of the economy. <#/>They have been exploited in different forms and at different times for the convenience of the higher agricultural potential areas. <#/>During the colonial era, policies were aimed at creating a labour pool to serve the set
t
ler economy. <#/>Today, semi-arid zones have become the recipients of population spillovers from the more humid regions. <#/>They also are important in tourism, which provides up to 30 per cent of Kenya's foreign exchange. <#/>Few policies have been devel
oped to serve the areas on their own terms.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<#/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
The only explicit efforts to address these regions arise during the periods of severe ecological stress in terms of drought or famine (for example in 1961, 1972 and 1984) when up to 30 per cent of the human an
d animal population are threatened. <#/>But these efforts are always short-lived. <#/>This implies that 82 per cent of Kenya, or 46 million hectares of land and 20 percent of the population, has been marginalized. <#/>It is thus subject to restricted deve
lopment opportunities which are defined not on the basis of the needs of these areas but on those of the higher potential regions.
\par <#/>This chapter explores the relationships between co-operative work and ecosystem potential among the Akamba. <#/>It is part
 of a larger study which considers relationships between land tenure, land-use and social organization. <#/>It explores the hypothesis that incentives for group work increase as the productivity of the ecosystem decreases.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Conceptual issues}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#
/>Despite the past difficulties encountered in the arid and semi-arid areas (ASALs) in attempting to foster sustainable production, there is no real escape. <#/>These regions can only increase in importance as productivity in the more humid zones approach
e
s full capacity. <#/>The government has in fact come to terms with the need to raise this productivity. <#/>The most significant action was to set up the Ministry of Reclamation and Development of Arid, Semi-Arid and Wastelands in May 1989. <#/>This has o
ccurred in the face of demands of a population growing at 4 per cent per annum in the humid areas and 5-7 per cent in the ASALs.
\par <#/>The challenge then is to identify and develop those strategies, technologies and techniques while containing the crucial ele
ments of sustainability. <#/>It is the position of this chapter that the source of such increases in productivity is the local community and its indigenous knowledge and that the foundation of this knowledge is based on traditional natural resource manage
ment.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{
There are five elements that characterize traditional natural resource management systems. <#/>The first element is that precolonial society was geared towards the conservation objective. <#/>As such it had insights on living in harmony with the e
nvironment which today's technocratic world has lost. <#/>It is precisely this holistic approach, however, that makes it difficult to identify specific conservation strategies among traditional land management systems. <#/>This leaves a blurred picture th
a
t has led individuals to dismiss East Africa's subsistence farmers as lazy or ignorant about soil conservation. <#/>Colonial officers perceived farmers' interaction with the land as predatory, never actively improving it and instead exhausting it through 
thoughtless tilling.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<#/>}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 Such perceptions arose from a colonizing culture which had a }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <&/>orth}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
cartesian rather than holistic view of the world. <#/>Conservation was thus undertaken as special projects and even by individuals or groups separate from those i
nvolved in utilizing the environment and contributing to its degradation. <#/>Some of the major non-governmental organizations (NGOs) fall in this category. <#/>This special-projects-approach, coupled with a dichotomy between those who damage the environm
ent and those who care for it, is a feature which is missing in traditional resource management systems.
\par <#/>The second characteristic of the traditional system is that resource use is based on a local view of the world. <#/>Traditional societies tended to 
exist in a single ecosystem or at most three adjacent and closely-related ecosystems. <#/>This meant that they could draw support from only one or three ecosystems.
\par <#/>Furthermore, as subsistence was the main purpose of production, there was a limit to th
e relief or 'aid' they could receive from neighbouring communities. <#/>This generated a high degree of independence within communities which is an important ingredient of sustainable resource use. <#/>This is in direct contrast with the modern global tec
h
nological civilization which draws support from the entire biosphere; a feature which has negatively effected the perception of the environment as locally dispensable. <#/>The 'myth of superabundance' has been generated. <#/>It holds that if a particular 
resource is exhausted in one area it can always be obtained from another region.
\par <#/>The third feature of traditional resource management arises from the minimal degree of specialization and thus 'occupation' within such societies. <#/>The only important di
stinction in 'occupation' occurred along gender lines. <#/>Even this degree of specialization was qualified by the fact that in an agricultural society, for example, all people\emdash men, women, and children\emdash 
engaged in farming to some degree. <#/>If cattle were 
present, all people had some part to play in livestock keeping. <#/>The distinction that can be made is that women were the farmers and performed the bulk of the agricultural labour. <#/>Men performed the bulk of livestock tending activities. <#/>This had
 
the effect of encouraging the development of a broad-based knowledge of the environment and its management. <#/>The highly specialized nature of the modern technological world has created divisions between those who know about the environment, those who p
lan for its use and those who use it. <#/>And very often these are three different categories of people who do not always work together.
\par <#/>The fourth feature for consideration is the traditional approach to knowledge and expertise. <#/>Modern society has 
a tendency to create a class of specialists or experts who exist in isolation and have the last word on all issues. <#/>This gives their knowledge a high profile which favours such specialists because they are trained through a costly formal educational s
y
stem which has been elevated above informal education, particularly in highly-technical areas such as natural resource management. <#/>Traditional expertise is produced at a much lower cost through informal experimental methods involving the accumulation 
o
f experience. <#/>All people have the opportunity to acquire it, which reduces its premium in today's world. <#/>It tends to be 'invisible' at the policy level because of biases developed throughout the formal education system and because of the limitatio
ns of prevailing approaches in eliciting such information.
\par <#/>The fifth feature of traditional communities is that resource utilization was approached with both physical and psychological tools, with the latter divided into intellectual and spiritual aspec
ts. <#/>Hyams refers to these three as the 'trinity of tools'. <#/>Physical tools were those made of wood, bone, stone or metal. <#/>Intellectual tools represented the most effective methods of approaching a task and became embodied in scientific 'discipl
i
nes'. <#/>Spiritual tools expressed the human relationship with the rest of the universe and were reflected in mythologies and religions. <#/>Thus, in using this trinity of tools humankind employed spiritual tools to invoke the relevant spirit or god who 
would confer upon them the mandate to purposefully and <-/willfully> bring a specific natural resource under their control for their use. <#/>Intellectual tools defined the method of work, while physical tools were used to perform the actual task at hand.

\par <
#/>One of the most significant differences between the traditional and the modern industrial age lies in the absence of the use of spiritual tools in the latter. <#/>These tools assisted humankind to control and check changes they make in their environmen
t
 and reflected the view that the whole world was alive. <#/>Finding themselves animated with 'spirit', humans extended this feature to other living and inanimate things. <#/>This is the basis of the religious beliefs referred to collectively as animism. <
#
/>The effect was an approach of resource utilization whose reverential basis was manifested in the widespread use of propitiatory rites. <#/>These rites served to confer a '... sense of responsibility towards other species in the soil community'. <#/>Such
 an attitude was particularly valuable towards developing a conservation approach towards natural resources.
\par <#/>Today the spirit of the age takes its essence from a mechanistic world view, central to the Judeo-Christian tradition that is 'antagonistic or i
ndifferent to nature'. <#/>In this philosophy there is a divinely ordained natural hierarchy. <#/>God is the supreme being ruling over the rest of nature followed by the human male with women, children, mammals, non-mammal animal life, plant life and inan
i
mate nature following in descending order. <#/>The tendency has been to bring nature under the control of humans for their use. <#/>In this way the reverence accorded to nature has been ignored. <#/>Humankind through the development of science and a new '
rationality' has taken full control\emdash  with an anthropocentric position.
\par <#/>This new approach treats the world as though it were a mineral resource\emdash 
to be exploited with no consideration for the future. <#/>This was probably <-/alright> when the world population was low. <#/>Today, a burgeoning global population and the spread of exploitative attitudes and philosophy has led to severe environmental de
g
radation to a point where nature is rapidly losing its regenerative capability in some regions of the world. <#/>Concomitantly, humankind has lost control over nature, thus becoming helpless. <#/>All is not lost, however. <#/>Highly developed physical and
 intellectual tools exist today which can be used to save humankind and the environment even in the absence of the spiritual tools.
\par <#/>The so-called traditional societies have at the core of their fabric an ability to change, adapt and adopt new crops and 
livestock for production systems and techniques. <#/>It is therefore not up to any third party to suggest preservation or a return to a previous form. <#/>The policy managers can assist such communities by devising appropriate strategies. <#/>The point of
 
departure is understanding the community, how they were, how they are and what assistance they require. <#/>The communities in question are located in Machakos District, south-east of the high potential land that surrounds Mt. Kenya. <#/>About 76 per cent
 of Machakos District falls in three semi-arid agro-ecological zones.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Akamba traditional resource management}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>The Akamba have experienced several changes relating to land tenure and land-use. <#/>Originally, they were pastoralists and hunter
s. <#/>On migrating to the Mbooni range in the 1600s from their original home in the Kilimanjaro region, they found themselves restricted to a smaller area. <#/>This, together with a growing population, forced them to start relying more and more on agricu
lture. <#/>It was here, according to Lambert, that they began to appreciate the value of cultivation, 'beginning a patriarchal land-kin synthesis'.
\par <#/>This transformation from pastoralism to subsistence agriculture led to distinct changes in land-use and l
and tenure. <#/>Pastoralists are primarily livestock-keepers who are nomadic. <#/>Land is used mainly for livestock management over an extensive area. <#/>Land boundaries are defined in the short-term but are fluid in the long-term. <#/>Most importantly, 
t
hey are determined by the prevailing social and ecological conditions. <#/>The agriculturalists, on the other hand, are basically sedentary. <#/>Use of land is relatively more intensive and they generally have distinct institutional means of acquiring or 
buying new land for personal or family use. <#/>The concept of land ownership is accordingly more permanent.
\par <#/>Despite these changes in land use, the Akamba as pastoralists or as agriculturalists had to deal with the limitations imposed by the arid enviro
nment they lived in. <#/>The conditions of aridity and rainfall variability are common in Machakos area. <#/>The mean annual rainfall varies from 500 mm in the lower plains to 1,300 mm in the hills. <#/>Ominde notes that the real problem of the region is 
the unreliability of rainfall. <X_>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
<#/>In most of the area, rainfall is likely to fall below 700 mm in at least 30 out of every 100 years. <#/>Inevitably, when it rains the greater part of it is lost through excessive run-off and evaporation. <#/>The estimated 
evaporation from a free water surface is about three meters a year. <#/>Machakos District typically receives rainfall in two seasons and has two dry seasons. <#/>The first rains last longer but it is the second rains that are the most reliable. <#/>The re
liability index is 60 per cent for the first rains at 50-450 mm, while the second rains offer 40 per cent at 60-530 mm.
\par <#/>These rainfall patterns can be seen as the basis for a delicate ecology which is susceptible to the rapid deterioration of the vegeta
tion and soil quality. <#/>Any major disturbance which removes the vegetation cover, thus exposing the soil, initiates the first step in the destruction of the locale. <#/>If the situation is not arrested, it leads to the mechanical removal of the thin hu
m
ic layer that represents years of accumulated fertility. <#/>The soil receives the full impact of the rain, creating surface water logging conditions and soil impacting leading to high run-off rates. <#/>This eliminates valuable plant species that need de
e
per rooting zones and have higher water demands. <#/>Xerophytic plant forms are favoured because they are able to fulfil their water requirements over a shorter period of time. <#/>Their shallow root system has a low water retention capacity. <#/>Low leaf
 yields allow for only low humus content. <#/>Xerophytes make insignificant contribution to the organic matter of the soil, thus causing the creation of self-perpetuating conditions.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Traditional land-use system}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\v\f0 <#/>}{\v This ecological situation gav
e rise to conditions which favoured pastoral activities rather than agriculture. <#/>The Akamba were, however, able to overcome the ecological limitations and engage in sustainable agriculture through a combination of institutional measures and technologi
cal knowhow. <#/>The salient feature in the Akamba land-use system was that it made use of the local variability in rainfall, temperatures and soil that was so often associated with altitude.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 In agriculture, soil quality determines the type of crops tha
t can be grown and the potential yield in any given locale. <#/>Local communities therefore gather information on soil characteristics and the kinds of crops that they can support. <#/>This process is vital in Africa because of the high degree of soil div
ersity which is also associated with plant diversity. <#/>The Akamba had over time become '... highly skilled in assessing varying soil quality, especially by using vegetative indices'. <#/>As such, they identified four soil types:
\par <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 nthangathi, }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 kitune, }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 thingia }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 and <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 thaathai.
\par <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Nthangathi }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
are the main soils in Machakos. <#/>Typically, they are light sandy soils and brown or grey earths with yellow sub-soil. <#/>These soils occur on slopes with a gradient of 3-4 per cent. <#/>These soi
ls are usually deficient in humus. <#/>They tend to dry out rapidly because of their lightness. <#/><ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Nthangathi }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 is a soil formed under conditions which retard chemical processes.
\par <#/>Such conditions exist if rainfall is low and erratic and cannot soak into the ground. <#/>Little clay is produced, leading to the predominance of sand particles. <#/>The Akamba distinguish between black and white <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
nthangathi. <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 The latter are those in which much of the humus has been destroyed by exposure to the sun, 
following the removal of vegetation or overgrazing. <#/>The former represent the better types which were generally selected for cultivation. <#/>This selection was based on the vegetative forms typical of the <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 nthangathi.

\par <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 The Akamba cultivated drought-resistant and deep-rooted crops such as cassava (<foreign/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Manihot }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <foreign/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 esculenta), }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 pigeon peas }{
\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 (}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <foreign/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Cajanus }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <foreign/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 cajan) }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 and sweet potatoes }{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 (}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <foreign/>}{
\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Ipomea }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <foreign/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 batata). <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 The lack of humus and poor water-holding properties exc
luded the cultivation of grain crops from such soils. <#/>Lambert points out that although these soils were prone to erosion, Akamba methods of agriculture produced little soil erosion as a general rule.
\par <#/>The red earth with red sub-soil and a significant quantity of clay is known  as <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 kitune. <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 This soil is found on slopes of a gradient of over 4 per cent and not exceeding 5-10 per cent. <#/><ea/>}{
\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Kitune is }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 formed through the decomposition of rock material as the soil climate is altered by the occasional influx of run-off water. <#/>Red soils are less porous than <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
nthangathi. <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 When they erode on steeper slopes, they tend to from deep gullies. <#/><ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Kitune }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
soils were not favoured for cultivation because the roots of crops were not able to easily penetrate the hard sub-soils. <#/>They are chiefly used as pasture, and the clay was used by women to make pots.
\par <#/><ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Thingia }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 soils were typically found n
ear large rivers such as the Tiva and Thowa. <#/>It is the most valuable soil because it is the most fertile. <#/>Being alluvial, it is particularly suitable for growing grains such as maize and sorghum as well as pigeon peas, cowpeas (<foreign/>}{
\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Vigna }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 spp.) and the much valued sugarcane used for brewing beer. <#/><ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Thingia }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
was cultivated when it was dry and was believed to improve after one year of cultivation. <#/>An important feature of the <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 thingia }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 was that flat sheets of black clay were formed ei
ther through periodic inundation by rivers or by sheet flow from long gentle ridges with the deposition of colloidal clay particles. <#/>These were known as <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 ilivi. <#/>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
Thingia }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 areas were also good for grazing because the soil did not dry up quickly and thus gave good pasture for star grass when all other land was dry.
\par <#/>Swampland, named <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 isoo, }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 was not suitable for agriculture or grazing and therefore did not receive much attention. <#/>The poorest soil was known as <ea/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 thaathai. <#/>}{
\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 This soil typically mingled with stone and rock, for example the land near Yatta Plateau, and has the lowest agricultural potential.
\par <#/>The Akamba land-use system was based on the ecological characteristics of the locality. <#/>As agricultural people, an intimat
e knowledge of the different qualities of soil in their environment formed the basis of their land-use system. <#/>It determined where to graze and where to grow crops and even which crops could be grown on which type of land.
\par <#/>The purpose of this spati
al differentiation of land-use was to maintain the delicate balance between human activities and nature. <#/>Further, it recognized the limits of the soil and so determined the efficacy of special conservation measures aimed at creating }{
\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 'landesque }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 capital'
 for the future maintenance of land capability. <#/>Investments of this nature included terracing, irrigation furrows and special cultivation patterns. <#/>These combined features were undertaken to ensure sustainable production in a hostile environment. 
}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <&_>Betty Nafuna Wamalwa, }{\b\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 United Nations Development Programme, Nairobi 
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 From: Kiriro, Amos/Calestous Juma, eds. (1991) Gaining Ground. Nairobi: Acts Press. African Centre for Technological Studies, pp. 35-41</&>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par W2A039K
\par <I> <h> <#/>Managing arid and semi-arid areas in Kenya </h>
\par <h> <#/>Introduction </h>
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{
From the stand-point of theory, innovations can only be discussed as such in the context of physical, social and psychological development of communities. <#/>It is possible to dip back into community
 memory, find a technology and utilize it to solve a particular development problem. <#/>Too often those who work in development not only take a narrow sectoral view\emdash usually <-/economistic> \emdash 
but also talk of packages which lack the social or psychological 
roots to nourish communities. <#/>Meanwhile, innovation is seen as external to the communities which are supposedly being developed. <#/>Others equate being new with being innovative. <#/>These attitudes are atheoretical from a development point of view, 
for it is the mixing of past, present and future knowledge that leads to innovation in development. <#/>The case of land-use in arid and semi-arid lands (ASALs) over time illustrates this concretely.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {<h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Traditional land-use technologies}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>The most important ASAL land-use problem is how to conserve water and soil for livestock and, secondarily, crop production. <#/>Development experts now recognize that traditional societies coped with poor soils and the shortage of water by adopting ag
r
icultural practices which emphasized people moving over large areas to utilize the little water available. <#/>People also used the vegetation which was produced by the scattered rain for their livestock. <#/>Although experts have for a long time ignored 
t
he knowledge which the people developed to cope with the scattered rainfall, they are now finding that such traditional knowledge is not only useful but also important if the semi-arid areas are to be developed. <#/>Already, new institutions are being set
 up in different parts of the world to tap such knowledge and incorporate it into other formal research activities.
\par <#/>One of the most important traditional agricultural techniques was slash-and-burn. <#/>A farmer came to an area which was not farmed and c
ut the existing bush but made sure that some of the traditional fruit and construction trees were left standing. <#/>The farmer waited for the cut material to dry, and, just before the rains, it was burned. <#/>Not all the trees died. <#/>Since the stumps
 
were not usually taken out, some of the cut trees would regenerate even before the farmer planted. <#/>The roots of the trees, shrubs and other plants which died during the burning ensured that the soil was aerated and that the little rain would percolate
 rather than run off. <#/>Current minimum tillage research and praxis make similar recommendations. <#/>Who then is innovating?
\par <#/>When the rains came, the farmer planted many crops, not in lines but all inter-mixed. <#/>Maize, millet, sorghum, cowpeas (<foreign/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 Vigna <foreign/ }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 spp.), pigeon peas }{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 
(<foreign/>Cajanus <foreign/>cajan), }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 beans, assorted melons and many others would be planted together. <#/>These crops usually did extremely well the first year since the burning process added some ash. <#/>The as
h and other nutrients in the soil resulting from the fallow period ensured the farmer some good yields . <#/>When the yields started dropping, the farmer left the land to rest and grow new bush which would be cut at some future date. <#/>This system of bu
sh fallowing was an important way to regenerate the fertility of the soil. <#/>It has found new catechists under either low-external input sustainable agriculture or bio-intensive agriculture. <#/>Who then is innovating?
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\f0 <#/>}{Slash-and-burn agriculture coupl
ed with bush fallow was important in maintaining soil fertility. <#/>At the same time it prevented extensive erosion, for the cleared parts were surrounded by bush-covered land. <#/>The little rain which came could not cause heavy run-off leading to gulli
e
s. <#/>It infiltrated vegetation-covered areas to recharge the water table. <#/>Slash-and-burn agriculture is not possible where there are many people in a small area since continuously opening new land is impossible. <#/>A particular piece of land must p
r
oduce food and fodder for families who often do not have access to other land. <#/>It is in these dry and relatively crowded lands that the challenge of developing agriculture to produce enough food for the people is enormous. <#/>The challenge can be min
imized by using knowledge which is not found in books but which is part of the living traditions of the people. <#/>This knowledge, however, is often not taken seriously and most of the advice given by the local people is often ignored.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\f0\fs24\lang2057 \column <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Indigenous knowledge}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>From a land-use perspective traditional knowledge had valuable contributions to make. <#/>First and foremost, by leaving stumps and some trees in agricultural land, the farmer increased infiltration of whatever rain fell. <#/>This fact i
s now recognized in all the minimum tillage literature.
\par <#/>Burning\emdash banned by colonial agriculture laws, and still banned\emdash added nutrients to the soil and minimized weeding. <#/>Perhaps most significant, burning has been shown to contribute to pest and dise
ase control. <#/>Today, burning is de-emphasized by most extension systems which want farmers to use the crop residues directly for fodder and indirectly for manure. <#/>However, there is still a case to be made for it on cropland, particularly for diseas
e control. <#/>For example, cotton farmers must burn all their cotton stalks every season and are not even allowed to use them for firewood.
\par <#/>It is important to agree, and soon, on the utility of burning in livestock production\emdash the most important activit
y in semi-arid lands. <#/>People in semi-arid areas know that the only effective way to control weeds and bush (which choke grass and thereby reduce the carrying capacity of rangelands) is to burn. <#/>In some traditions it is common knowledge that some s
u
perior grasses grow and perform better after burning. <#/>There is not enough labour in semi-arid lands for manual bush clearing. <#/>Neither is there capital for extensive machinery use. <#/>It should therefore be clear that the only way to reclaim range
land and improve its carrying capacity is to burn the inferior vegetation to get better fodder.
\par <#/>Where there has been serious denudation and the grass cover has been replaced by bush, some labour input has to be made before burning. <#/>Again the traditi
onal slash-and-burn techniques seem to offer a solution. <#/>In this system, a farmer would fell a few big trees to assure that there would be enough material for a good burn. <#/>The felled trees provided fodder for the animals before being burned. <#/>R
ecent range research has picked up this traditional idea to increase the carrying capacity of rangelands.
\par <#/>In this technology, practised by as varied peoples as the Samburu and Kuria, trees are half cut and pushed to the ground to be browsed by livestock
. <#/>Care must be taken that the trees are not clean cut for that would kill them. <#/>Where the branches cover the ground, natural grass reseeding takes place. <#/>Over a few seasons, if practised systematically, even denuded land can be reclaimed. <#/>
I
f rangeland is treated this way and burned it is possible to increase the rate of grass reseeding and maintain increased browse and tick control in areas where dips and dipping are unavailable. <#/>This should lead to a much higher carrying capacity of th
e
 land whilst improving the soils. <#/>Again, the limiting factor in the adoption of this traditionally derived technique seems to be the lack of imagination on the part of extension policy planners and development practitioners who still enforce the irrel
evant colonial anti-burning laws.
\par <#/>Mixed cropping\emdash planting different crops with different root patterns, growth and maturity rates and uses together\emdash not only utilized the soil and available moisture more efficiently but also made food available at differ
ent times. <#/>The impact of mixed cropping on the soil is positive and therefore important. <#/>Where there are many types of crops planted together, there is very little erosion because there is always some crop covering the ground. <#/>Even intermitten
t storms do not dislodge the soil. <#/>Keeping a ground cover of grasses, shrubs, creepers or trees also assures that the nutrients in the soil are not burned by the sun. <#/>Finally, mixed cropping systems used leguminous plants\emdash 
including trees, shrubs and creepers\emdash which fix atmospheric nitrogen.
\par <#/>During the past 80 years, experts have concentrated on telling people who live in semi-arid lands to go into single-crop systems. <#/>Yet recent research shows that mixed systems benefit not only the soil but t
he farmer's pocket. <#/>It thus seems important that farmers continue to practise these techniques. <#/>The simplest mixtures are of crop legumes and grains, thus interplanting maize with beans, cowpeas, pigeon peas or green grams should be encouraged Sin
c
e the researchers have still to work out complete packages of what works in what soil, farmers themselves could continue experimenting on what works best on their individual pieces of land. <#/>The more complex mixtures involve cereals, crop legumes and t
rees.
\par <#/>Trees are important in semi-arid land agriculture for moisture conservation and for production. <#/>In traditional agriculture, there was knowledge of the useful fruit, fodder, medicinal and construction trees. <#/>These were maintained for their 
important economic uses. <#/>They coexisted with the crops. <#/>Yet there has been less research on these trees than on exotic trees. <#/>As a result the extension systems can tell us about 'alley cropping' with exotics but not with traditional trees. <#/
>The problem with exotic tree species is that they are vulnerable to diseases and pests in ways as yet unknown to their proponents.
\par <#/>Extension of exotic tree species is also problematic since they must often come from centralized nurseries. <#/>Transport
 becomes a problem when projects move away from central to group nurseries. <#/>There is seldom enough water for the nursery and all seedlings may be lost. <#/>Some extension officers give seeds to farmers, hoping that somehow they will be planted. <#/>Al
l
 this ignores local trees which are adapted to the specific circumstances and which have economic roles. <#/>In Kitui, for example, there are many fruit trees which farmers will leave in the farm and use. <#/>There are construction trees which they will p
rotect and fodder trees which they will utilize. <#/>The challenge then is to design a farming system which can be used by the farmers to support soil and water conservation by improving and commercializing these trees.
\par <#/>There is a need for new thinking on tree extension. <#/>Farmers ask for fruit trees\emdash 
mainly budded citrus. <#/>This should be encouraged for the commercial and nutritional benefits of these exotic fruit trees are clear. <#/>Yet the consumption of fruits from traditional unimproved trees is
 probably surpassed only by consumption of mangoes. <#/>Why not invest in extension of the traditional fruits and their improvement as well as developing markets for them?
\par <#/>Even more important may be the issue of traditional fodder trees. <#/>They regen
erate themselves without nurseries. <#/>Some are clearly nitrogen-fixing while others stress crops and thus are not good agroforestry trees. <#/>What must be done to improve their yield? <#/>How do we protect them from disease and pests? <#/>Which of the 
traditional trees are as suitable as <foreign/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 Sesbania <foreign/>sesban, <foreign/>prosopis }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 or <foreign/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 Leucaena }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
species or other exotic agroforestry trees? <#/>Answers to these questions are urgently needed. <#/>They must be sought out of farmers' experiences.
\par <#/>For good production in semi-arid lands all efforts must be concentrated on improving the soils and retaining moisture. <#/>Trees and cropping patterns which keep the ground covered for most of the year, fix nitrogen and minimize investment in la
bour are the way to relevant development. <#/>It is doubtful if such systems will be developed if traditional knowledge is ignored. <#/>The challenge for development must be to find ways of collecting such knowledge from the farmers who know the tradition
s. <#/>This knowledge must also be formalized so that it is not lost with the passing of the old people.
\par <h> <#/>The colonial roots of ASAL programmes </h>
\par <#/>Whereas the focus on land-use innovations may not seem to hinge on the development activities of 
the state, the colonial state's activities affected people's access to land. <#/>The history of ASALs and people's struggles for their rightful share of development goes back to the early colonial period. <#/>Alienation of land for European settlement shi
fted the African populations into lands which had not been utilized continuously before the colonial period. <#/>The bulk of land alienation took place in the first two decades of this century. <X_>
<#/>Large tracts of land were taken from pastoral people, particularly in the Rift Valley. }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
<#/>The Maasai were moved from the Uasin Gishu plateau which was well-watered to the ASAL areas of Narok. <#/>Maasai people also lost significant parts of what is today Laikipia District and parts of Nakuru. <#/>Other people in 
Rift Valley Province also lost their grazing areas which were integrated in their traditional production systems.
\par <#/>The settled peoples of the eastern highlands had a mixed agricultural and pastoral system based on utilizing the ASALs surrounding them. <
#/>These lands were also alienated. <#/>The alienation of land for European settlement, combined with increases in the African population, led to pressure for settlement in the ASAL areas as well, particularly of the Machakos and Kitui lowlands. <#/>The a
l
ienation of land for national parks similarly pushed many people in the eastern forelands and along the coast into more arid areas. <#/>The combined impact of land alienation and population growth had by the third decade of this century led to overcrowdin
g in the areas left to Africans. <#/>This overcrowding resulted in deterioration of the land resource.
\par <#/>At the training level the state started agricultural schools at Kabete and Bukura. <#/>Both these schools were in humid areas of African settlement an
d thus set the stage for training in agriculture for wet climates. <#/>At the policy level, the district-based Local Native Councils were given power to raise revenue to build roads and provide other social services in their areas as well as power to regu
late forestry and land-use. <#/>This in turn led to moving a significant number of people from forest areas into drier areas.
\par <#/>Policy concern regarding ASALs did not become <-/focussed> until after 1936 when, responding to a serious three-year drought in
 many parts of the country, colonial administrators in ASAL districts agitated for some attention. <#/>As a result, colonial funds were committed to soil conservation\emdash  essentially by forced labour\emdash 
and destocking since the ASAL problems were blamed on overstocking.
\par <#/>At the level of technology, pastoralists and transhumants were perceived as not only dangerous to the environment but also a direct threat to the nascent European ranching which had started after the crop farming disasters of the Depression ye
ars. <#/>While some programme money was put into crops in the humid areas, almost nothing was put into livestock. <#/>Even where there were minimal veterinary services, they were paid for by compulsory culling.
\par <#/>More significantly, veterinary rules and 
regulations were enforced which stopped the circulation of livestock between the various pastoral communities. <#/>The primary aim was to protect European ranchers, but they also limited the circulation of breeding stock among the various peoples with dir
e consequences for their livestock.
\par <#/>In 1945 the African Settlement Board was established to deal with the problem of over-population in African areas. <#/>This body moved some people to a few remaining good farming areas. <#/>Yet within a year it became
 clear that the settlement approach was not going to work since the areas suited to settlement were in the alienated land, and the colonial state could not break its covenant with the European settlers. <#/>By 1946 the African Settlement Board was replace
d
 by the African Land Development Board (ALDEV) which came out of the 1946-55 ten-year development plan. <#/>ALDEV's portfolio included provision of basic infrastructure (roads and water), project planning and co-ordination as well as financial control of 
development funds in African areas. <#/>ALDEV devised the first strategy on the development of ASALs.
\par <#/>The development strategy was conceived as rehabilitation and reconditioning of degraded land. <#/>The key assumption was that research would produce te
chnical knowledge which the government would implement to solve the problems: once restored, the lands could be managed in their primordial state. <#/>The elements of the strategy involved setting up research on ASAL grasses, mechanized and chemical bush 
control, drought-resistant crops, pan and subsurface dam construction techniques as well as animal disease control.}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </X>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 </I>
\par }\pard\plain \s2\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \i\v\f47\lang2057 {\b\f0 <&_>Gideon Cyrus Mutiso, }{\b Muticon Consultants Ltd., Nairobi
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 From: Kiriro, Amos/Calestous Juma, eds. (1991). }{\b\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Gaining Ground}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 . Nairobi: ACTS Press. pp 87-92</&>
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par W2A040K
\par <I> <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Managing watersheds in Kenya}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Introduction}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>A consistent thread which runs through current assessments of the state of the world's natural resources is the need to take urgent steps t
o reduce the rate at which natural resources are being depleted if the survival of humankind on Earth is to be secured. <#/>Fresh water is one of such resources, the depletion of which is causing the greatest concern. <#/>Some of the critical issues which
 have emerged with respect to the world's fresh water resources revolve around several general concerns.
\par <#/>The first is how best to preserve or restore the global ecological balance to a level that enables nature's own methods and processes of generating 
and conserving water to again operate without impairment. <#/>The second is whether and how existing fresh water reserves can be developed and managed in a manner that supports those natural methods and processes. <#/>The third is whether humankind's own 
patterns of consumptive utilization can be controlled in such a way as to prevent further relapse into waste, pollution and depletion.
\par <#/>The first of those issues is beyond the scope of this discussion, being a technical matter best left to climatologists
, ecologists and environmentalists. <#/>The other two, however, are the concern of this chapter. <#/>The chapter examines, in particular, one aspect only of what needs to be <-/targetted> in the design of a water management regime, namely the preservation
 
and protection of the watershed and the catchment area or drainage basin within which its water reserves flow. <#/>For that purpose it evaluates the systems and mechanisms which exist in Kenya's law, practice and custom regarding the management of watersh
eds, and suggests alternative innovations, the adoption of which could improve the country's capability to deal with the issue.
\par <h> <#/>Watersheds in Kenya </h>
\par <#/>A watershed is essentially a ridge or mountain range which separates one drainage basin or a
rea from the others. <#/>In common parlance, it is the point of commencement of all rivers and their tributaries, gullies and other channels which drain into a given surface water system or catchment area. <#/>A single watershed may therefore constitute t
he head waters for more than one catchment area.
\par <#/>Figure 5.1 delineates Kenya's primary watersheds and the catchment areas supported by them. <#/>As will be observed from the map, these watersheds lie in numerous ranges, the most important of which are i
n Mt. Elgon, Cherangani Hills, Elgeyo Escarpment, Nandi Hills, Nyando Escarpment, Kisii Highlands, Central Highlands, Mt. Kenya, Nyandarua Ranges, Aberdare Range, Ngong Hills and the Mau Escarpment.
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <&/>table
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>These support five main catchment areas: th
e Lake Victoria area drained by the Nzoia, Yala, Nyando, Sondu (Miriu), Kuja and Migori rivers; the Rift Valley drained by the Molo, Kerio, Perkerra, Turkwel and Southern Ewaso Nyiro rivers; the Tana drained mainly by the Tana Rivers; the Athi drained by 
t
he Athi, Galana and Sabaki rivers; and the Northern Ewaso Nyiro drained mainly by the Ewaso Nyiro of like name and serve intermittent tributaries which discharge their waters into the Lorian Swamp. <#/>Krhoda has provided a useful estimate of the total ar
ea of the country covered by each catchment area and the mean annual precipitation in each case.
\par <#/>Although this does not provide a complete hydrometric picture for each catchment area, it is to be expected that apart from natural precipitation, the absol
ute volume of water reserved at each head and its capability for functional regeneration or renewal will depend on the condition of the watershed itself. <#/>Similarly, the total amount of run-off into any given river, tributary, <-/gulley> or other chann
el ultimately depends on the health of the relevant catchment area.
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <&/>figure
\par }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>Water resources in Kenya have recently acquired more economic importance as a result of renewed government emphasis on the development of arid and semi-arid (ASAL) areas. <#/
>In addition to the development of these areas, further development in the rest of the country will entail further pressure of water resources.
\par <#/>A number of indicators may be used to gauge the general condition and vitality of watersheds and catchment a
reas. <#/>Among these are the range and density of grass and vegetative cover still available in a given area; the nature and extent of forest reserves thereon; the degree and rapidity with which natural degradation is occurring; and the pattern and effec
ts of overall climatic change in the region within which it is comprised. <#/>Assessed by these indicators, Kenya's watersheds and catchment areas cannot be said to be particularly healthy.
\par <#/>As regards grass, vegetative and forest cover, significant depl
etion has in fact occurred over the past three decades. <#/>Grasslands depletion has been particularly serious in the productive drylands and rangelands as well as in higher altitudes adjoining areas of intense agricultural activity. <#/>Similarly, althou
g
h the map suggests that the country's remaining protected forests are more or less coincident with the main watersheds identified above, these are now covered mainly with softwood plantations; indigenous reserves having largely been destroyed. <#/>Indeed,
 as elsewhere in Africa, Kenya continues to lose a significant amount of forested areas each year.
\par <#/>As regards natural degradation and climatic change, it is now well established that as a result of human activity, the nature of which is discussed below,
 these are being accelerated at most alarming levels. <#/>These changes are no longer limited to discreet ecosystems or regions. <#/>Rather, they have become global in character, leading to considerable investments in research and technology development b
y
 governments and international institutions in an attempt to restore the global ecological balance. <#/>Depending on how and by what agency that degradation or change occurs, the renewability or regeneration of the resources affected cannot always be gene
rated.
\par <#/>The causes of this state of affairs have long been recognized as primarily anthropogenic in character. <#/>These include progressive encroachment on catchments and watersheds in the form of human settlements, cultivation and grazing of livestock,
 wanton destruction of woodlands for timber and fuelwood and enormous pressure on land and water resources as a result of population increase and hence of higher }{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 per}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  }{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 capita }{
\f0\fs24\lang2057 
demands thereon. <#/>In addition, note has been taken elsewhere of the fact that changes in indigenous production systems coupled with widespread stagnation in agricultural technology in most of rural Africa has created disequilibrium between patterns of 
resource use and their availability.
\par <#/>The consequences of these processes are evident everywhere. <#/>Four of these are relevant to this discussion. <#/>The first is significant impairment of the capacity of various watersheds to retain sufficient reserv
es to sustain normal flow in some catchment areas. <#/>In addition, reduced run-off has been known to occur in these areas especially at the interface between productive and marginal areas. <#/>The second is increased sediment yields due to erosion in som
e of the major rivers such as the Tana, Nzoia, Yala, Kerio, Nyando and Sondu (Miriu).
\par <#/>As a result, the transportation capacity of these rivers, measured in terms of volume and levels, has been known to fluctuate considerably. <#/>The third\emdash  also a consequence of the second\emdash 
is downstream flooding which in some cases has pushed agricultural populations further upstream into forested areas. <#/>The fourth, which has been an important phenomenon in the arid and semi-arid areas traversed by some of these rive
rs, is much higher levels of evaporation than previously experienced.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 Watershed management in Kenya}{\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>The consequences enumerated above suggest that the issue of how best to design a management system which would facilitate the sustainable d
evelopment of watersheds (and catchment areas) is ultimately an environmental one. <#/>This indeed has been accepted as the case in Kenya's 1989-93 Development Plan. <#/>It is necessary therefore that enquiry is made into the nature, structure and dynamic
s of the system as embodied in existing law, practice and custom and an assessment made of its efficacy.
\par <#/>Very broadly speaking, the mechanisms which constitute the present system of watershed management in Kenya may be classified into four typologies: t
hose designed for the regulation of land use; those concerned with the protection of the soil and its fertility; those dealing specifically with catchments; and those framed broadly in terms of environmental planning.
\par <#/>As a typology the land-use approac
h assumes that proper resource management must be anchored on good land-use and proper husbandry. <#/>The theory of the case is that production and productivity depend essentially on the technology of resource exploitation. <#/>The approach contains both 
p
ositive and negative elements. <#/>In the one case it requires a broad form of zoning which allows only particular crops or land-use types to flourish in designated agro-ecological zones. <#/>And in the other, it prohibits the exploitation of certain area
s\emdash usually defined in terms of gradients or proximity to protect resources\emdash either absolutely or only after certain conservation measures have been carried out.
\par <#/>The Agriculture Act provides an excellent example of this approach. <#/>Although the legislati
on is primarily concerned with how best to increase agricultural production, it also sets certain ground rules about what is regarded as good land use and husbandry. <#/>The Agriculture (Basic Land Usage) Rules (L.N. 26 of 1965) thus provide, for example,
 that no one may cultivate or pasture livestock on slopes exceeding 35 per cent.
\par <#/>The Act also authorizes the Minister of Agriculture to make rules for general protection of slopes, catchment areas and reforestation. <#/>Similar authority exists, <foreign/>}{\i\f0\fs24\lang2057 inter <foreign/>alia, }{\f0\fs24\lang2057 
in the Chief's Authority Act and the Wildlife (Conservation and Management) (Amendment) Act. <#/>Thus, not only are conventional agricultural and livestock practices covered, but agroforestry and game ranching are covered as well. 
<#/>In addition, broad powers exist within the Act enabling the Minister of Agriculture to evaluate the management condition of any land used for agricultural purposes on a case-by-case basis.
\par <#/>Where the Minister is satisfied that any such land is not being properly managed or is being so mismanaged that its condition is likely to further deteriorate, he or she may issue a series of management orders specifying what corrective measures are n
ecessary. <#/>Failure to execute such measures may lead to dispossession of land. <#/>Although this particular power is not normally invoked, it does provide a most potent tool in the face of bad land-use.
\par <#/>The soil conservation approach differs from the
 first mainly in the comprehensiveness of the range of measures which may be required for the protection of the soil and its fertility. <#/>Here, the target is not often the individual occupier or owner of land nor even any particular parcel of land or ar
e
a. <#/>Under the Agricultural Act the Minister can propose broad land preservation schemes in such areas as require special attention. <#/>Such schemes, when approved, operate more or less as a land-use plan in respect of those particular areas. <#/>It is
 
in pursuit of these and similar powers that specific conservation measures such as bench-terracing, gully protection and similar measures were, throughout the colonial era, enforced. <#/>Similar powers may be evoked under the Chief's Authority Act and the
 Forests Act.
\par <#/>The catchment protection approach consists of measures <-/targetted> specifically at catchment areas. <#/>This approach is conceived of as part of local level planning and is therefore combined with the generation of water management polic
y in discreet settings. <#/>For this purpose, the Water (Catchment Board) Rules made under the Water Act divides Kenya into six catchment areas. <#/>These are identical to the list provided by Krhoda, with the exception that the Lake Victoria area is spli
t into two divisions designated as North and South.
\par <#/>A board is set up for each area. <#/>The duties of the board include the monitoring of consumptive utilization of water and tendering advice to the Water Resources Authority on any matter within its pa
rticular jurisdiction. <#/>The Act also sets up Regional Water Committees for each province to advise on water management matters or issues germane to their respective administrative units.
\par <#/>Although the linkage between Catchment Boards and Regional Com
mittees is not clear, the intention is to temper technical proficiency with policy relevance. <#/>It is important to note that this typology makes no specific reference to watersheds, nor does it take account of the wider context in which catchment system
s operate, as well as the implications of recently-established institutions such as the National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation.
\par <X_>}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>The environmental planning approach constitutes a new approach to water management in Kenya. <#/>It came onto t
he scene with the arrival of regional development authorities some 10 years ago. <#/>Although the idea of implementing development programmes on a spatial basis and entrusting an authority to execute it is not in itself new, the comprehensive mandate whic
h the Lake Victoria Basin, Kerio Valley, the Tana and Athi Rivers and Coast development authorities now enjoy is an important innovation particularly for watersheds.
\par <#/>The constitutive legal instruments of these Authorities confer upon them the power, within their respective 'development areas', <foreign/>}{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 inter <foreign/>alia, }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
to: initiate and co-ordinate programmes of development; conduct studies on their respective resource bases- carry out long-range resource forecasting; monitor and evaluate the quantu
m and rates of utilization of resources; co-ordinate all water abstraction processes; design and execute works necessary for the preservation of resources; and encourage land occupiers and owners to adopt good land use and effective preservation practices
.
\par }\pard\plain \s44\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\lang2057 {\v\f0 
<#/>The phrase 'development area' is defined in each case in terms of a watershed, catchment areas and river systems which fall within particular geographical and politico-administrative boundaries. <#/>Thus it is intended that each authority should have 
jurisdiction over the resources which form parts of a distinct ecosystem and, in the case of water, a specific drainage basin.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f47\fs20 {\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <#/>In addition to the framework set by the mandate given to development authorities, it is important to remember that the Perman
ent Presidential Commission on Soil Conservation and Afforestation is also in existence. <#/>The Commission operates under a flexible scheme that cuts across a wide range of ecological concerns.
\par <#/>Although this body was initially concerned }{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 primarily }{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 with
 soil degradation and forest destruction, its activities have, over the years, assumed the form of environmental planning and protection hence its inclusion in this typology. <#/>The Commission has been particularly effective in the areas of policy articu
lation and public education. <#/>In that respect, therefore, it has provided useful back-stopping to the activities of other agencies.
\par <h> <#/>}{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Some management innovations}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  </h>
\par <#/>The typologies and respective measures discussed above represent responses to resource issues which are not particularly watershed-based. <#/>Even the third which mainly concerns water represents little more than a framework for monitoring the }{
\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 consumptive utilization}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057  of that resource. <#/>Very little, if any, is said of its develop
ment and conservation. <#/>Consequently, many design gaps remain which must be plugged if an effective framework for watershed (and even catchment area) management is to emerge.
\par <#/>Some of these include the elimination of unnecessary overlaps and complexi
ty in the bureaucratic processes charged with the responsibility to execute particular measures, the rationalization of operational linkages between various levels of particular bureaucracies (for example under the Water Act); the inclusion of a mandate t
o
 relate programme measures to clear policies and long-range plans; and the shift away from implementation strategies based on the implicit coercion through the agency of the criminal law, to those based on informed persuasion. <#/>As population pressure i
ncreases this will become even more crucial.
\par <#/>There is need therefore for further innovations which would enhance the viability of the existing typologies when these are read as a }{\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 single system}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
. <#/>That would convert what often appears as a haphazard and purely sectoral approach to resource management into a comprehensive and environmentally-sound framework.
\par <#/>In respect of watershed management, such innovation should incorporate a number of specific tasks. <#/>The first task is the need to ensure, at 
all times, that an accurate inventory of water resources emanating from each watershed and draining through each catchment area is available. <#/>What this requires in practice is that there should be in existence for each watershed and catchment area a h
ydrometric record indicating the particulars of rainfall, levels of evaporation, the flow, level or volume, properties and transportation capabilities of water courses, and the quantum and distribution of subsurface water therein.
\par <#/>The second is the desi
rability of a clear statement of water resources policy for the whole community and in respect of different watersheds and catchment areas. <#/>Such a policy should, to the extent possible, set out the principles governing the harnessing, conservation, au
gmentation and quality of control of water, the priority of uses and users especially in situations of drought and similar emergencies, and the zones beyond which encroachment by human activities cannot be allowed.
\par <#/>The third is the preparation of a wate
r resource plan which is not only fully integrated into the national development plan, but is also sensitive to the particular needs, circumstances and administrative capabilities of various regions of the country. <#/>The plan should, <foreign/>}{
\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 inter <foreign/>alia}{\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 
, specify permissible water abstraction or impoundment methods for each region, identify and provide projections of future demand for water, determine minimum flow requirements of any area which are capable of satisfying existing and future deman
d on a continuos basis and provide for adequate measures for the protection of the environment generally.
\par <#/>The fourth, which requires a great deal of thought, is the design of a new institutional framework capable of absorbing the implications of these tasks. <#/>The framework provided by Water Act is simply not adequate for that purpose.
\par <#/>The fifth is the involvement of local communities in the design and implementation of watershed management systems}{\f0\fs24\lang2057 .</X>
\par </I>
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 <&_>H.W.O. Okoth-Ogendo, }{\b\i\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 Population Studies and Research Institute, University of Nairobi and Centre for African Family Studies, Nairobi
\par }{\b\v\f0\fs24\lang2057 From: Kiriro, Amos/Calestous Juma, eds. (1991) Gaining Ground. Nairobi: Acts Press. African Centre for Technological Studies, pp. 115-123</&>}{\b\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par }}