<I> <O> INLAND LETTER CARD </O> 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#1:1>
<indig> : <&> Kannada </&> Shree </indig> <&> addresser
on right side, indented form </&> 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#2:1>
2, Siddhartha, Nagraj Colony, Sangli 28-12-1993. 


<ICE-IND:W1B-001#3:1>
My Dear Dr. Shastri, 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#4:1>
I returned from Pune <del> late </del> yesterday night after attending a <}> <-> 
two day </-> <+> two-day </+> </}> sitting of the Sub-Committee on <del> X 
s</del> Std X textbook at the M.S.S. & H.S. <w> Board's </w> office on 25th and 
26th Dec. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#5:1>
This was the first meeting I attended We made some selections from the materials 
brought by members for the textbook under <-> about </-> 8 topics decided upon. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#6:1>
Prof. Kadepurkar has been asked to <del> steer </del> guide and coordinate the 
proceedings for the present during the absence of Dr. Shastri. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#7:1>
Prof. Kadepurkar said that we should get ahead with the necessary spade work 
along lines shown to us by you during our work on the std. IX book. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#8:1>
As he put it <quote> <indig> " Mi keval <quote> `paduka' </quote> sambhalnar 
ahe" </indig> </quote> , in anticipation of <indig> Sri </indig> <w> Rama's </w> 
return. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#9:1>
They <del> all </del> were all eager for news about your health and were happy 
to hear that you were doing much better. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#10:1>
However, I told them that you may not be able to attend to work at the <w> 
Board's </w> office at least for a few months more.
</p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#11:1>
Atul <del> au </del> was here <}> <-> to day </-> <+> today </+> </}> and he 
confirmed what I had tentatively <del> suggested </del> told them about your 
present state of health. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#12:1>
I was glad to hear from Atul that you are making steady progress, but you may 
have to wait until complete recovery and that it may be risky for you to <del> 
rus </del> rush back and plunge into work before doctors could give you 
clearance unequivocally. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#13:1>
I have brought with me from Pune some of your clothes which <del> you </del> had 
been left behind there and have sent them to Meera for being sent to you. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#14:1>
I propose to come to Kolhapur to call on you one of these days when we will be 
able to talk over other things at leisure including the <del> thesis </del> 
doctoral thesis you have sent me. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#15:1>
Hope you are all doing well and you are enjoying the company of dear Raju and 
the new entrant to your family fold, your daughter-in-law. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#16:1>
Mrs. Shastri must be having a good time too <del> after </del> in view of the 
happy turn of events after the gruelling experiences of the previous 2 months. 
</p> 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#17:1>
With kind regards 
<&> Complimentary close on the right side </&> 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#18:1>
Yours affly sd/- 

<&> addresser on the right side, block form </&> 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#19:1>
<quote> " Siddhartha" </quote> Nagraj colony, Vishrambag, Sangli ( 416415 ) 
12th April 1994 


<ICE-IND:W1B-001#20:1>
My dear Dr Shastri, 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#21:1>
I was glad to hear that you made another journey to Pune and you are doing much 
better. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#22:1>
I wish you enjoyed the visit to the <w> Board's </w> office and met friends. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#23:1>
I hope it means another step towards perfect health for you. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#24:1>
I am glad to say that I have finished with the work of checking through the 
<quote> ` thesis' </quote> . 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#25:1>
I have done it as carefully as I could possibly do it, bearing in mind that the 
author is contemplating its publication in a book form. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#26:1>
It was not at all easy going and besides the usual omissions and commissions of 
the typist there were quite a few places where I felt the need for making 
suggestions for corrections and modifications in the interests of proper idiom 
and choice of words and phrases to suit the semantic situation. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#27:1>
I have also made some notes which, I believe, should yield some interesting 
material for the study of Indian English. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#28:1>
More of it when we meet. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#29:1>
There are, of course, certain points which need to be straightened out in 
personal discussion with the author as the intended meaning is not at all clear. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#30:1>
I have also made a list of a few common points to be <del> borne in </del> noted 
while preparing the final copy for the press.
</p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#31:1>
The final section in the work entitled <quote> " Epilogue" </quote> posed quite 
a few problems in view probably of the fact that the author has <del> made 
</del> sought to make in it a brief review of the main argument with concluding 
remarks of his own, unlike in the rest of the book which <del> mainly </del> 
draws mainly upon the writings of <del> als </del> authors consulted and reports 
and surveys published by the various provincial governments and central 
authority right from the days of the East India Company. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#32:1>
These latter sources have naturally left their stamp of turgid <del> l </del> 
19th c. prose writing <del> w </del> that many of the scholarly administrators 
and law makers of those days had inherited.
</p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#33:1>
I must, however, record my deep appreciation of the painstaking work done by the 
writer of the thesis and the sincerity and devotion he has brought to the task. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#34:1>
It was a rewarding experience for me to go through the work which helped to 
recall to me the talks on related topics that I used to have with my late elder 
brother who was a distinguished police officer <del> a so </del> attached to the 
C.B.I. and had won the <w> President's </w> Police Medal. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#35:1>
I hope to call on you <del> som, sometime </del> Friday or even earlier along 
with the <quote> ` thesis' </quote> . </p> 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#36:1>
With kind regards and sincere thanks 
<&> Complimentary close, on right side, </&> 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#37:1>
Yours affly sd/- 

<&> addresser on right side, indented form </&> 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#38:1>
Siddhartha Nagraj Colony, Sangli. 15-11-1998 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#39:1>
Dear Dr. Shastri, 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#40:1>
Very happy to hear from Mrs Shastri who called on us the other day that you are 
fine and got yourself busy with your project.
</p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#41:1>
I am now writing to tell you that <del> anr sa </del> a middle page article on a 
new book ( in English <del> ) </del> from Oxford Uni. Press ) on <quote> " 
Indian English" </quote> by an Indian author has appeared in Maharashtra Times 
<-> for </-> day before yesterday, either 12th or 13th Nov. you might like to go 
through it. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#42:1>
Wishing you excellent health <del> and </del> during the coming winter season 
which I hope will be conducive to your <del> f </del> work on your valuable 
project, and ultimately lead to a happy and fruitful end to your ambitious and 
extremely valuable mission. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#43:1>
<del> wishing you </del> With the best of <w> Season's </w> greetings </p> 
<&> Complimentary close on right side </&> 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#44:1>
Yours sincerely, sd/- 

<&> addresser on right side </&> 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#45:1>
24-7-1998 contd. 14/15-8-1998 


<ICE-IND:W1B-001#46:1>
My dear Vasantrao, 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#47:1>
To say that <quote> ` I owe you a reply' </quote> as you have said in your <del> 
last and </del> third and last letter read during the last few weeks would be a 
gross understatement. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#48:1>
I owe in fact an Apology. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#49:1>
Unconditional and Absolute. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#50:1>
While I cannot thank you <del> adequ </del> adequately enough for your kindness 
in writing to me and your readiness to forgive me by suggesting that perhaps I 
might not be doing <del> quite </del> well enough, I must confess that your 
doubt wasn't entirely unfounded. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#51:1>
The whole of the last two months and more have been rather trying, what with the 
extremely hot summer and the tragic and untimely demise of <w> Padma's </w> 
husband that naturally cast its deep and sombre shadow of gloom and anxiety over 
all of us. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#52:1>
All of which naturally took its toll and left me depressed with my B.P. getting 
erratic. </p> <O> Page 2 ( from letter to Prof. Yardi ) ( 29-7-1998 contd.
15-8-1998 ) </O> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#53:1>
Let me record here gratefully I did receive a copy of your valuable work <quote> 
" Eng. Pronunciation <*> dotted line</*>" </quote> and have gone through some 
sections which delighted me by the lucidity and succinctness of your exposition. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#54:1>
<w> It's </w> definitely a book for teachers and careful readers, though I 
wonder how many would make the necessary effort to follow the phonetic symbols. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#55:1>
But <w> it's </w> a valuable contribution to the literature on the subject as 
the distinguished writer of the <del> contribute </del> introduction has put it. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#56:1>
To me too it brought certain revaluation. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#57:1>
<quote> " Worsted" </quote> in worsted cloth doesn't go with <quote> " word" 
</quote> or <quote> ` worse' </quote> but is <quote> " worstid" </quote> ( Am I 
right <del> ? </del> therein ? 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#58:1>
I don't have your book in front of me now as it has attracted many curious 
readers who have mislaid it for the present. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#59:1>
<w> I'll </w> find it out ) </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#60:1>
Another point which has long evaded me is whether the following pairs rhyme 
exactly : morning / mourning border / boarder order / odour potter / porter </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#61:1>
From your exposition it would appear that they don't much ( ? ) differ. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#62:1>
It seems you can't take objection to <quote> " corporation" </quote> deputising 
for <quote> " co operation" </quote> . </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#63:1>
<del> I </del> <}> <-> you </-> <+> You </+> </}> could have added an appendix 
showing certain words which are patently mispronounced; <O> <&> page </&> 3 </O> 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#64:1>
1. <quote> ` castle' </quote> ( <indig> kasling </indig> the King in chess ) 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#65:1>
2. ( hotel ) Suite - - rendered to <quote> ` suit' </quote> their own 
familiarity with suits of many kinds, with a Diabetic phobia for <quote> " 
sweet" </quote> it should sound like. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#66:1>
3. <quote> ` Cassette' </quote> which has found an unassailable slot ( or niche 
? ) in Marathi vocab as <indig> kaset </indig> doubly sanctified and reinforced 
by Marathi ( in fact, almost all Indian language ) journalistic practice. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#67:1>
I was extremely sorry to hear that you have totally lost the use of one of your 
eyes. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#68:1>
But still you carry on bravely thus setting for people like us an example you 
still went on working to complete the book on pronunciation and have earned due 
recognition and appreciation from scholars and serious students. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#69:1>
And <w> what's </w> more Mrs Yardi too has joined your club by publishing one of 
her own books. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#70:1>
May I now crave your indulgence to revert to the topic of Satyasheel <w> 
Panchwagh's </w> poignant end? </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#71:1>
It was nearly 7 - 8 months ago that malignancy was positively detected and his 
wilful and affectionate son, an efficient surgeon himself, got for him the best 
available medical care and treatment <O> <&> Page 4 </&> </O> in <w> Mumbai's 
</w> <mention> Tata Cancer Hospital </mention> and later at home in Pune. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#72:1>
It was an extremely difficult type of affliction he had, affecting as it did his 
pancreas and they had removed his pancreas. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#73:1>
As a result he had got a bonus. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#74:1>
He was even back on his feet for a month or two. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#75:1>
But on May 9, we <}> <-> recd. </-> <+> received </+> </}> the shocking message 
of his having developed secondaries and it was spreading fast. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#76:1>
Immediately we two accompanied by Govindrao and his wife who were then here, 
left for Pune the day after and we met him. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#77:1>
He was bed-ridden but was full of his usual good cheer and affectionate regard 
and kindness inquiring about everyone at home and hardly gave us any inkling of 
his obvious suffering. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#78:1>
( we were told though that the care they had taken at the Tata Hospital and 
later by his son and daughter-in-law ( also a doctor ) during the month and a 
half he spent with them in their post-graduate trainee doctors rooms had helped 
to spare him from acute pain ) . 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#79:1>
He didn't survive for long and succumbed to the inevitable on 31st May. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#80:1>
My daughter-in-law, Meera, was there in Pune at that time and she was full of 
admiration and respect for the grace and dignity with which he accepted his end. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#81:1>
Padma, realising my disability, sent <O> <&> Page 5 </&> </O> me a message not 
to try to hazard <}> <-> a </-> <=> a </=> </}> journey to Pune again to meet 
her and with characteristic Panchwagh magnanimity assured me she would herself 
come to spend some quiet time with us all here. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#82:1>
She did come over a month ago and spent a week with us. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#83:1>
Govindrao and his wife who were in Pune all along accompanied her to Sangli and 
she left after a week <del> and left </del> with Sharad and Medha who came to 
escort her back home. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#84:1>
There are so many anecdotes and memories associated with the brave, generous and 
incomparably wise and magnanimous late Satyasheel Panchwagh that it would call 
for a really gifted writer to do justice to it all. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#85:1>
I am told he has left behind a valuable diary-cum-memoirs which has earned the 
admiration of some of the discerning friends of their distinguished family ( you 
are probably aware of his two sons-in-law, Dr. Deshpande and Prof. Pradip Apte 
and a wide circle of friends they <del> had </del> have counting away them some 
of <w> Pune's </w> cream of intellectuals ) 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#86:1>
When I had been to see him in Pune in mid-May, I was one of the fortunate few to 
receive from his hands another small MS dealing with the memorable experiences 
of his early life, during the most impressionable period of 14 to 22 / 23 years 
which he had the privilege to spend with his remearkable father <O> <&> Page 6 
</&> </O> at the Sardar Grih in Mumbai. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#87:1>
It is in the form of a narrative account addressed to his wife, brothers, 
sisters and their spouses and to his son and daughter-in-law and the only
grand-child, <w> Savita's </w> son, and dedicated to his Mother. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#88:1>
<quote> ` Nana' </quote> as they called him, his father was a brave-hearted, 
noble-minded gentleman par excellence with absolutely no <quote> " malice or 
narrowness" </quote> in him, as a close friend of <w> Nana's </w> had remarked. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#89:1>
<w> <quote > " Let's </w> <-> us </-> try to live up to his ideal" </quote> he 
appeals to them at the end. </p> 
 
<p> 
<ICE-IND:W1B-001#90:1>
Will you in the largeness of your heart forgive me for going off at a tangent, 
talking my head off like that unmindful how I might be trying your patience ? 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#91:1>
I seem to have lost all sense of proportion which only underlines my deep 
anguish and incidentally explains, unpardonably though. 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#92:1>
This belated acknowledgment of your writing to me so often, your kind letter of 
condolences included. </p> 

<ICE-IND:W1B-001#93:1>
With kind regards, etc. 
<&> Complimentary close on right side </&> 


<ICE-IND:W1B-001#94:1>
Yours sly sd/- </I> 

