<I>

<$A> 
<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#1:1:A>
Okay the learning point of this exercise is this

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#2:1:A>
First you must have be creative enough or be imaginative enough to
locate where the pages are

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#3:1:A>
Then you use your logic to work out the total answer the logic ha

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#4:1:A>
But you are not creative enough or you are not imaginative enough to
locate where the pages are

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#5:1:A>
All your logic will go to nought will go to waste

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#6:1:A>
You think about that

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#7:1:A>
That's why sometime you go and see your boss

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#8:1:A>
Your boss scold you aye you're not imaginative enough lah always
give this sort of answer not imaginative

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#9:1:A>
Imagination is very important as what Einstein says imagination is
more important than knowledge

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#10:1:A>
Einstein was reading he was one day daydreaming riding on a beam of
light shooting towards the distant star

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#11:1:A>
But to his great surprise he did not arrive at a distant star he
arrived at our local front our front here

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#12:1:A>
Say aye what what has what has happened

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#13:1:A>
So he used his logic to explain

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#14:1:A>
It should actually mark a curve instead of going straight

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#15:1:A>
In another words uh light is does not necessarily tra travel on a
straight line

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#16:1:A>
It's curve the universe is curve

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#17:1:A>
So he kept <unclear> word </unclear> to accumulate when he look at
the curve

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#18:1:A>
So how did he arrive

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#19:1:A>
Firstly he used his imagination his creative <unclear> word
</unclear> thinking after then he use his logic to explain

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#20:1:A>
So coming back to coming back to our problem which is more
important

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#21:1:A>
Creative thinking or logic thinking

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#22:1:A>
Creative thinking or logical

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#23:1:A>
Creative thinking

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#24:1:A>
If you look at it you and I we all graduates

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#25:1:A>
As a graduate we're paid that extra premium to solve logical
problem or creative problem

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#26:1:A>
Creative problem logical problem the clerk can do no need you

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#27:1:A>
What for employ you

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#28:1:A>
If you don't you see logic problem is application of set principles
set set rules lah

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#29:1:A>
I give you ten dollar you must give four dollar

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#30:1:A>
I mean it's all very standard stuff

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#31:1:A>
Okay if you your your car cannot park here fine ten dollars

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#32:1:A>
Just fine ten dollars straight away

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#33:1:A>
Logical it's that logical applying set principles

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#34:1:A>
But you and I are paid premiums to do creative solving to do
creative problem solving

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#35:1:A>
If my problem is very logical no need to employ you lah basic task

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#36:1:A>
You are you are employed for the job to think

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#37:1:A>
Think creatively

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#38:1:A>
Now what sort of problems are difficult to solve

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#39:1:A>
Creative problems or logical problems

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#40:1:A>
Creative problems

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#41:1:A>
Why

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#42:1:A>
Firstly because of greater degree of uncertainty

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#43:1:A>
Number two you must create your own answer the answers are not off
the shelf

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#44:1:A>
Number three it takes longer time to solve because there is uh no
set procedure

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#45:1:A>
So these are three reasons why creative problems are harder to
solve than logical problem

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#46:1:A>
What's the difference between logic problem and creative problem

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#47:1:A>
Logical problems you use logic

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#48:1:A>
You use what what you call convergent thinking

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#49:1:A>
You also uh yah and one answer alright

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#50:1:A>
And lastly uh uh and there are four also don't know what I'm
talking about let me to check

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#51:1:A>
There are three only

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#52:1:A>
Let me get it facts right

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#53:1:A>
Sometimes I forget it

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#54:1:A>
Alright okay basically uh right one use convergence one use logic
one answer convergent thinking vertical thinking

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#55:1:A>
If you have to use imagination then answer divergent in other words

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#56:1:A>
Okay can I leave

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#57:1:A>
So much so for practical problem let us go into uh uh creative
principle ha eight major principles

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#58:1:A>
Here's try <unclear> word </unclear>

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#59:1:A>
The first thing in creative principle is uh testing assumptions
testing assumptions

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#60:1:A>
You must always test assumptions

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#61:1:A>
In fact when you talk about creativity uh willing to stick till
there I can hear all the right answer

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#62:1:A>
Just listen is good enough

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#63:1:A>
Alright okay okay uh let me tell you about about creativity in
terms of uh in terms of something which is very practical

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#64:1:A>
I think when we talk about creativity actually we're talking about
how can we shape our paradigm

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#65:1:A>
Now paradigm subserves assumptions ways of doing things

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#66:1:A>
We all have paradigm

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#67:1:A>
Why is it that we're not creative in large in part because we have
certain mind type certain way of doing thing and this can be very dangerous

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#68:1:A>
Paradigm set out to do on people's graphs <unclear> word </unclear>

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#69:1:A>
Or <unclear> word </unclear> <unclear> word </unclear> you it
prevent us from seeing things

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#70:1:A>
And that's pooh pooh <unclear> word </unclear> status

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#71:1:A>
Let me give you an example

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#72:1:A>
In 1968 the Swiss control seventy per cent of the watch industry

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#73:1:A>
They got seventy per cent market share

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#74:1:A>
That's really markets of you know

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#75:1:A>
In 1978 they only control ten per cent market share

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#76:1:A>
That is 'kosong' almost 'kosong'

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#77:1:A>
This is what I call the shift in paradigm

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#78:1:A>
Of course from seventy per cent to ten per cent what happens

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#79:1:A>
What has what has happen

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#80:1:A>
In 1968 one of the Swiss engineer New <unclear> word </unclear>
Chepard <unclear> word </unclear> invented the quartz watch

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#81:1:A>
When he invented the quartz he showed it to all the Swiss designers

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#82:1:A>
But the Swiss designer the Swiss watch maker of of of his day have
a good look at the quartz watch and they'll say this cannot be a watch this
is no tread how can this ever be a watch

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#83:1:A>
If you have no main spring no gear no bearing how can it ever be a
watch

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#84:1:A>
Ai yah nothing one nah this one just ignore it

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#85:1:A>
So the poor engineer uh but they allow the poor engineer to exhibit
his uh quartz watch in the International uh Watch Show

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#86:1:A>
Seiko and Texas Instrument were there 1968

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#87:1:A>
Both took a good look at the quartz watch and the rest is all
history

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#88:1:A>
The Swiss have to sack fifty thousand of their sixty-five thousand
workers in the watch-making industry

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#89:1:A>
That's catastrophe because Switzerland is like Singapore very small

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#90:1:A>
They got three point five million people and we got about about
slightly more

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#91:1:A>
To be sack twenty thousand of the people sack within ten years that
is uh that is certainty very hard to imagine

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#92:1:A>
But what has happen

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#93:1:A>
This is because the Swiss watch-maker were caught in their own
paradigm

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#94:1:A>
No main spring no gear no bearings how can this ever be a watch

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#95:1:A>
Forget it this cannot be a watch and this prove catastrophic for
them

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#96:1:A>
Let me tell you another story of our time

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#97:1:A>
This is pertaining to the CD player you know the compact disc
player

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#98:1:A>
Actually it was uh Sony that invented the CD player back in the
seventies early seventies

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#99:1:A>
But after deferring for a couple of years they gave it up because
they just put it on the shelf

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#100:1:A>
But it so happen that Philips was also developing it

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#101:1:A>
But Philips thought that Sony got head start maybe we should just
go and talk to Sony they may tell a thing or two

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#102:1:A>
So uh Philips brought their CD player along and Philip show Sony
their CD player

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#103:1:A>
When when the Sony people saw Philips' CD player they nearly drop
dead because Philips produced the CD player of what we know of today the four
and the half inch one is it very small one

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#104:1:A>
Do you know why the Sony people nearly drop dead

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#105:1:A>
All the while they were thinking of twelve-inch CD player

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#106:1:A>
You see ah when you invent a twelve-inch CD player

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#107:1:A>
See if I could <unclear> word </unclear>

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#108:1:A>
Firstly if you want to make it portable carry around okay besides
being bulky or what let say you you manage to make it portable

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#109:1:A>
The thing is this lah a twelve-inch CD player can last eight hours
of playing time

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#110:1:A>
Now which battery can last eight hour

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#111:1:A>
You have problem number one

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#112:1:A>
Problem number two you know how much a record player cost if it is
twelve-inch that runs for eight hours

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#113:1:A>
One hour already cost you thirty buck eight hours my goodness
almost three hundred buck

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#114:1:A>
Who could afford a piece that cost three hundred buck

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#115:1:A>
So no wonder they put it on the shelf

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#116:1:A>
You see the Sony people were caught in the paradigm of the of what

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#117:1:A>
Of the twelve-inch record player and because when they got stuck
they couldn't move at all

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#118:1:A>
They got stuck and they could not move at all

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#119:1:A>
Once you get the danger of paradigm getting caught you know
getting caught

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#120:1:A>
I'll like to talk about McDonalds in Singapore

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#121:1:A>
When Robert Kwan wanted to introduce the McDonalds in Singapore it
was especially a paradigm shift too

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#122:1:A>
It was a relevant shift

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#123:1:A>
He see a lot obstacles

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#124:1:A>
The obstacle is firstly he's bringing in the concept of fast-food

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#125:1:A>
No need fast-food in Singapore a hawker centre our hawker centre
equally fast

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#126:1:A>
You sit down there for five minutes the fellow give you right

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#127:1:A>
How can I talk about fast food

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#128:1:A>
Number two Singaporeans don't eat beef right because many of us
are Buddhist right

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#129:1:A>
Hamburger also got beef

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#130:1:A>
Number three there was already a a fast-food centre here

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#131:1:A>
A & W and A & W therefore they were struggling right

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#132:1:A>
They were not doing business

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#133:1:A>
In fact I mean they were about to you know at the verge of
<unclear> word </unclear>

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#134:1:A>
They were struggling

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#135:1:A>
But here again a paradigm shift

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#136:1:A>
Robert Kwan in McDonalds prove them all wrong okay

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#137:1:A>
So it's very dangerous if we get stuck to a paradigm ha

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#138:1:A>
We need to to break away from this from this paradigm from this
usual way of thinking from this concept

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#139:1:A>
I think however a little bit crazy ha

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#140:1:A>
Okay first step paradigm breakage is that we must always try to
test our assumptions

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#141:1:A>
Testing assumptions is very critical

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#142:1:A>
Let me tell you a story

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#143:1:A>
Two boys went to a forest

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#144:1:A>
They met a bear

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#145:1:A>
The bear started to give chase of the two boys

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#146:1:A>
Half-way through through the running uh the two boys one of the
boys stopped

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#147:1:A>
He tried to take out from his back-pack his Reebok running shoes
and started to put it on

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#148:1:A>
The other boy turn around and you crazy fellow what for you put on
your Reebok running shoes

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#149:1:A>
You'll never run faster than a bear

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#150:1:A>
The other boy putting on his shoe turn around and say yes it is
true

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#151:1:A>
I'll never run faster than a bear but I only have to run faster
than you

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#152:1:A>
That's what I mean by testing assumptions

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#153:1:A>
Anyway you can go wrong <unclear> word </unclear>

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#154:1:A>
First assumption was of course run faster than a bear

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#155:1:A>
Second assumption is to run faster than the boy than the bear will
catch the boy won't catch you

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#156:1:A>
But that doesn't mean that you all should go back and uh don't
have to work very hard

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#157:1:A>
Just work better than your other colleagues

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#158:1:A>
Okay the second thing that we need to do is uh in fact testing
assumptions is uh we have to be pos we we have to adopt a positive attitude

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#159:1:A>
Okay you have to try to obtain a you can get ready uh to

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#160:1:A>
Okay uh I want you to give me as many comments as possible

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#161:1:A>
Alright I give you uh two minutes to think about my new wheel
barrow

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#162:1:A>
Can see my wheel barrow ha

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#163:1:A>
Can see my beautiful wheel barrow

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#164:1:A>
Forget about the spelling a bit wrong don't worry I'm damn
hopeless on spelling B A R R O W

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#165:1:A>
Okay I can never get the spelling <unclear> word </unclear>

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#166:1:A>
Okay I'll write uh what uh give me as many comments you can think
of

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#167:1:A>
I'll be going round to collect comment so everybody must come up
with one ah okay

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#168:1:A>
We'll start with the other row and save this row from all
embarrassment <unclear> word </unclear>

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#169:1:A>
Okay we'll start from the first row okay

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#170:1:A>
First comment any comment

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#171:1:A>
You can repeat what other people had said nevermind

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#172:1:A>
<O> Comments </O>

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#173:1:A>
Now look carefully

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#174:1:A>
If I were to look carefully at all your comments actually uh this
is what you want

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#175:1:A>
I told you this a design of a new wheel barrow

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#176:1:A>
Ha I did say this is new wheel barrow design

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#177:1:A>
Okay doesn't matter lah

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#178:1:A>
Okay lah I I okay lah

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#179:1:A>
I don't know what I say

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#180:1:A>
Okay nevermind <X>

<ICE-SIN:S2A-040#X181:1:A>
Ah alright okay if I were to look carefully at all your comments
ah actually this is what you want right Observe carefully Am I not right this
is what you want? Correct or not? So what you want is a what? A conventional
old wheel barrow What you want is a conventional old wheel barrow But when
you see a new design of wheel barrow you 'ng kum guan' You must go back to
the original </X> </I>
