<I> 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#1:1>
Q5 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#2:1>
The structural approach to language learning sees language only as a means of 
structuring information.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#3:1>
Thus, to learn language, one needs to learn the structure of language, that is, 
the grammar of one's target language.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#4:1>
This was seen as the ultimate goal in language learning. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#5:1>
The functional/interactional approach however, sees language as the main mode of 
communication which humans use.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#6:1>
Therefore, acquiring language means more than being able to use the language in 
grammatically correct ways. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#7:1>
It means being able to use language appropriately depending on the contexts
in which they are to be used. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#8:1>
For the structural approach, it sees the development of language as a 
development of linguistic competence, thus, it looks at how children acquire the 
grammar/structure of language. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#9:1>
According to Skinner's theory, language is learnt by children when they receive 
a stimulus from their environment.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#10:1>
This stimulus, in turn, creates a response in the child. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#11:1>
Thus, the child learns language through imitation and practice of adults' 
utterances. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#12:1>
Adults also give them feedback ( concerning their utterances) in the form of 
reinforcement, as to whether their utterances are correct or incorrect.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#13:1>
Thus, children will learn whatever structures of language that are presented to 
them. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#14:1>
The reason for the structuralist approach ( above) to language learning is 
because they believe that language is like a set of habits to be learnt one by 
one.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#15:1>
Thus, language learning is a cumulative process, which enables structures to be 
learnt one by one, finally resulting in the linguistic competence of the 
learner. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#16:1>
In the functional/interactional approach however, children do not learn language 
through imitation and reinforcement. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#17:1>
Instead, they learn language primarily through interacting with the people in 
their immediate environment. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#18:1>
Through this interaction, children become effective communicators of their 
language.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#19:1>
Thus, in order to be able to communicate effectively, they must know the 
conventions of taking part in a conversation as well as know how to use language 
correctly ( linguistically). 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#20:1>
Therefore, the learning environment to be investigated here is the conversation, 
where language learning takes place. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#21:1>
From the above, it can be seen that the structural approach to language 
development only explains language to a small extent. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#22:1>
This is because the approach believes that all a learner acquires about language 
comes from his environment, and that knowledge of the environment is acquired 
through imitation, practice and reinforcement of language.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#23:1>
However, experiments have shown that children only acquire a very small amount 
of their language through imitation.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#24:1>
On top of this, the structural approach implies that the learner is entirely 
dependent on the environment to supply him with his knowledge on language. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#25:1>
Thus, it sees the learner as a passive learner ( entirely dependent on the 
environment) and not an active one ( actively contributing to the language 
learning process).

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#26:1>
As a result of this, it must explain why, in language development, children 
produce idiosyncratic forms not found in the adults' grammar. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#27:1>
For example, a child was observed to continue saying the word " holded", even 
after he was continuously told that the correct form was " held". 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#28:1>
The child was impervious to correction, thus disproving the structural approach 
which claims that children will only produce structures found in the adults' 
grammar.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#29:1>
Also, it also proves that children do not correct their forms when they are 
given feedback from adults. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#30:1>
They only correct the forms which do not go against their own notions of the 
correctness of grammar. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#31:1>
The structural approach also claims that children only produce a response in the 
presence of a stimulus.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#32:1>
However, this results in the approach not being able to explain why children 
vocalise even in the absence of a stimulus.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#33:1>
For example, Reich ( 1986) gives us an example about a child who continued his 
vocalizations even after his mother had put to bed.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#34:1>
Thus, the structural approach fails to explain this aspect of language 
development. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#35:1>
The structural approach also says that when children imitate adults' utterances, 
it shows that they have grasped both the structure and the meaning behind the 
utterances. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#36:1>
However, the approach fails to take into account that comprehension in children 
normally precedes their production of the same semantic notion. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#37:1>
Thus, even a lack of imitation of the adults utterance on the part of the child 
does not mean that he ( the child) does not understand the concept. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#38:1>
Thus, the structural approach is wrong in equating imitation with understanding, 
as this clearly is not the case in language development in pre-school children.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#39:1>
The structural approach also fails to explain the speed at which children 
acquire language. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#40:1>
If children learn through imitation only, they would acquire language very 
slowly, as they would always have to wait for an adult to " teach" them the 
language and provide them with data for imitation. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#41:1>
Therefore, for the above, it can be seen that the structural approach to 
language development in pre-school children hardly explains language 
development.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#42:1>
This is because the approach is too presumptuous in assuming that children only 
acquire language through imitation.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#43:1>
It fails to take into account the fact that the learner has to act on his 
environment in order to enable language learning to take place. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#44:1>
The functional/interactional approach, on the other hand, can explain a large 
portion of the development of language in pre-school children. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#45:1>
Firstly, the approach is able to see the children as active, and not passive, 
learners of language.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#46:1>
Thus, children will learn language in the way they think is right, using the 
data they obtain from the environment to acquire their own knowledge of 
language. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#47:1>
By seeing children as active learner of language, this theory is able to explain 
" errors" which children make in acquiring language. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#48:1>
These errors are seen as part of the natural learning process ( as children work 
out the grammar of language for themselves) and will cease to exist once the 
children have worked out the adult's grammar for themselves. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#49:1>
Also, the theory is able to explain how and why children acquire prosodic 
features likes intonational patterns, stress patterns and pauses.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#50:1>
Children acquire these because they need to use them in communicating with their 
environment. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#51:1>
They acquire these features in the pre-linguistic stage. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#52:1>
here, children are already able to realise that there is a need for them to 
communicate even if they are not cognitively developed to use language to 
communicate as yet. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#53:1>
Thus, the functional approach explains children as first acquiring these 
intonational patterns to express their pragmatic intensions before using grammar 
to express the same intentions. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#54:1>
Thus, the approach is even able to explain the development of children in the 
pre-linguistic stage.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#55:1>
This is important as communication does not begin at the linguistic stage. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#56:1>
Instead, it begins from the moment the child is born. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#57:1>
Thus, because the functional/interactional approach explains that language is 
learnt through communication, it has to look first at how communication takes 
place prior to the time when language is used for communication ( in order to 
see any connections between the pre-linguistic and linguistic stage).

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#58:1>
Also, because the functional/interactional approach shows that children acquire 
language through communication, it is able to explain how children not only 
acquire linguistic competence but are able to acquire the functional aspect of 
language too ( leading to communication competence). 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#59:1>
Thus, the theory is able to explain how children combine their knowledge of 
prosodic features with their linguistic knowledge to be able to produce language 
appropriately, according to the situations in which they occur. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#60:1>
Thus, in effect the theory is successful in explaining how language development 
does not start at the one-word stage, but actually starts in the pre-linguistic 
stage.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#61:1>
The functional/interactional approach by postulating that language learning 
cannot take place outside of the situations that give them meaning, are this 
also able to explain that because children learn language in the context of 
situation, they are thus able to use language according to the appropriate 
situation, too. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#62:1>
Therefore, from the above, it can be seen that the functional/interactional 
approach is able to explain language development to a large extent than the 
structural approach can. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#63:1>
The functional/interactional approach is able to explain how children acquire 
communicative competence, as well as is able to ? 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#64:1>
up development in the pre-linguistic and linguistic stages. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#65:1>
The structural approach, on the other hand, is only able to explain a small 
expect of the way in which children acquire linguistic structures. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#66:1>
Even this small aspect of linguistic learning which it tries to explain is 
faulted in many ways, as shown in the essay above. </I>
<I> 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#67:2>
Q1 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#68:2>
Children, by the age of five, are believed to be fairly competent in their first 
language.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#69:2>
By this time, children are believed to have already acquired the basic grammar 
of their first language. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#70:2>
This means that children have acquired linguistic competence in their first 
language. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#71:2>
The aspects of this linguistic competence include phonological, morphological, 
syntactic and semantic features.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#72:2>
One example of this linguistic development in children is the acquisition of the 
plural marker in English. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#73:2>
At first, children produce both the regular and irregular forms of the plural 
marker ( because their speech is based mainly on imitation without comprehension 
at this stage). 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#74:2>
This is followed by the next period where children learning English as a first 
language realise that there is a regular plural marker rule governing words. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#75:2>
They thus overgeneralise the use of the regular marker to include even words 
which have irregular plural markings. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#76:2>
Only in the third stage do they finally learn the correct plural markings for 
words.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#77:2>
On top of the acquisition of linguistic structures, children also acquire the 
ability to use language as a means of communication with others. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#78:2>
They learn to use language to express their pragmatic intensions using 
intonational patterns, stress patterns and pauses. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#79:2>
They also make use of non-verbal gestures to communicate with others, too. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#80:2>
All these, in fact, already develop in the pre-linguistic stage ( prior to 
language use).

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#81:2>
For example, Gupta, in her data, shared that Ah Seng, while in the
pre-linguistic stage, screamed in order to show his insistence on going out with his 
brother. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#82:2>
Thus, he was in fact using a primitive speech act ( in the form of the scream) 
to show his demand.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#83:2>
These pragmatic intensions, expressed through intonational patterns, later 
become lexicalised and then grammaticalised when children enter the linguistic 
stage. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#84:2>
In the linguistic stage, children do not merely utter a sentence out of context.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#85:2>
Instead, it is uttered according to the context and each utterance indicates the 
intension of the speaker. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#86:2>
Therefore, from the above, it can be seen that by the age of five, children have 
acquired communicative competence in their first language.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#87:2>
They are able to use language appropriately in appropriate contexts. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#88:2>
On top of this use of linguistic structure, they are able to use prosodic 
features to help them in their communication with others. </I>
<I> 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#89:3>
Q2 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#90:3>
In order to be able to compare the similarities and differences between 
monolingual and bilingual development of preschool children, a distinction must 
first be made as to the different ways of acquisition of bilingualism. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#91:3>
A
difference must be made between simultaneous and successive bilingualism. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#92:3>
Simultaneous bilingualism is when children are exposed to two or more languages 
from birth whereas in successive bilingualism, a child is exposed to one 
language first and then exposed to another when the first language is already 
established. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#93:3>
The similarities between monolingual and bilingual development in children is 
that both sets of children will first acquire intonational and stress patterns 
prior to any acquisition of language. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#94:3>
Also, in the acquisition of the languages, both sets of children will also be 
aided by a genetic program within them which makes them predisposed to acquiring
language. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#95:3>
They will also both have to make hypotheses as to the rules of the language(s) 
they are learning. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#96:3>
To do this, they will both make use of an innately endored system which aids 
them in acquiring language. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#97:3>
Monolingual and bilingual children, if they are of the same age, will also be at 
the same stage of cognitive development, which will determine their use of the 
input they obtain. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#98:3>
The children will also both be dependent on caretakers' speech to aid them in 
acquiring the 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#99:3>
respective language(s) being learnt. <X> 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#X100:3>
From studies done, it has also been found that children acquiring two languages 
simultaneously learn both the languages at approximately the same pace as 
monolingual children learning the same languages. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#X101:3>
This finding was based on the syntactic structures, lexical growth and mean
length of utterances being acquired. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#X102:3>
On top of this, children acquiring language simultaneously are believed to go 
through an initial mixed stage ( comprising both the languages being learnt).

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#X103:3>
In this stage, the child has only one lexicon but with words from both 
languages. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#X104:3>
There are also no equivalents of words for words from both languages. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#X105:3>
It is only after this stage that the child begins separating out the two
language systems. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#X106:3>
This stage, of course is absent in monolingual children, because they are not 
faced with two language systems.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#X107:3>
There is also the possibility of children learning languages successively to 
face " interference" from the first language, especially if the first language 
is already well-entrenched.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#X108:3>
This also is absent in the monolingual development in children. 

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#X109:3>
However, the basic difference between monolingual and bilingual development of 
pre-school children is that the latter is faced with two, instead of one, 
language system to sort out.

<ICE-SIN:W1A-011#X110:3>
The ability of pre-school children to acquire more than one language ( as 
efficiently as monolingual children) clearly shows that the cognitive 
development in children at this early stage is already well-developed enough to 
sort out more than one language system. </X> </I>
