<I>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#1:1>
<h> SELL YOURSELF </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#2:1>
Good wine needs no bush, so they say.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#3:1>
Selling yourself in this context, does not mean bragging about
yourself.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#4:1>
If you do, it will court undesirable consequences.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#5:1>
Selling yourself implies that you should be conscious of your assets
and project it to the customers discreetly.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#6:1>
<h> Why do you need to sell yourself? </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#7:1>
When you meet a prospective customer, you have first to win his trust
and confidence.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#8:1>
Do you expect your prospective customer to listen and accept
everything you say before he knows you?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#9:1>
Of course not.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#10:1>
Put it another way, he has to 'buy' you first, before he buys your
product.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#11:1>
Many salesman concentrate so much on selling the product that they
forget to sell themselves.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#12:1>
Some even think that the product is all that matters.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#13:1>
Besides, when is the correct time to sell yourself?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#14:1>
Following my argument that you have to sell yourself before the
product, it appears that you should sell yourself right at the beginning.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#15:1>
How do you sell yourself during the first encounter?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#16:1>
Is the client interested in you or your product?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#17:1>
Are you going to feel awkward, talking about yourself?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#18:1>
Selling yourself is a delicate job.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#19:1>
You must get the message across modestly.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#20:1>
Project your real worth to your client.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#21:1>
Clients on their own seldom ask you for your worth.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#22:1>
At most, they might ask you for credentials.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#23:1>
Your real worth stretches further than official credentials.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#24:1>
For example, you are a warm, friendly person who carefully looks
after your client's interest.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#25:1>
In your subtle way, you should carry that message across.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#26:1>
What happens when the client is not interested in you?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#27:1>
Still, I will encourage you to sell yourself gradually.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#28:1>
Your qualities must be appreciated by your client.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#29:1>
It can help you clinch a deal.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#30:1>
It can also help ease the tension when your price is higher than your
competitor's ( if you are sold).

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#31:1>
Selling yourself has other advantages as well.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#32:1>
It reminds the salesman occasionally of his worth.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#33:1>
Every salesman must feel good about himself.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#34:1>
It's a great therapeutic boost to know your own worth.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#35:1>
Selling yourself enables you to realise that.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#36:1>
How do you sell yourself?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#37:1>
We'll come to that later.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#38:1>
First, let me point out the advantages of personal selling versus
other methods of selling.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#39:1>
You'll then understand why you should exploit the opportunities
offered by personal selling.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#40:1>
<h> PERSONAL SELLING VS OTHER METHODS OF SELLING </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#41:1>
Personal selling, compared with other methods of selling, offers more
advantages.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#42:1>
Firstly, the salesman has the opportunity of face-to-face contact
with the prospective client.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#43:1>
He is able to build a direct, personal relationship with the client.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#44:1>
Queries or misconceptions can be clarified on the spot.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#45:1>
This is critical for longer-term dealing.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#46:1>
In direct-mail selling for example, customers read from brochures.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#47:1>
Questions cannot be asked or answered personally.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#48:1>
Dissatisfied customers cannot voice their disapproval effectively.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#49:1>
Miscommunication may result due to semantic problems.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#50:1>
Secondly, in personal selling, meetings are confidential and
personalised.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#51:1>
Customers can comment directly about the product to the salesman.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#52:1>
The salesman can assess the extent of approval or the seriousness of
an objection.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#53:1>
The visibility of body language helps the salesman to make his own
assessment.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#54:1>
It is also possible to coax a more conclusive opinion from the
prospect, prior to a sale or rejection.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#55:1>
Many years ago, I was selling to a purchaser from a large company.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#56:1>
During one of our meetings, he asked me to " cover" him for the
purchase.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#57:1>
In other words, he wanted some personal commission.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#58:1>
That would never be discovered without a personal meeting.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#59:1>
" Is it not better to be ignorant of it?" You might ask.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#60:1>
Well, some would rather not know.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#61:1>
They consider this messy to be involved.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#62:1>
But if a customer fails to buy your product for a reason such as
this, do you prefer not to know the truth?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#63:1>
Faced with a customer, direct negotiations has the tendency of
reducing " blue-sky" bargaining.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#64:1>
This is a term used in industrial relations to mean unrealistic
extremes in bargaining axes.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#65:1>
The salesman and his prospect can quickly size up each other and have
a clearer picture of the range which is bargainable.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#66:1>
In terms of disadvantages, personal selling is a more expensive
method of selling.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#67:1>
It is also slower in covering the market compared with direct mail.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#68:1>
Direct-mail can reach a larger target group in a shorter time.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#69:1>
Direct-mail on the other hand, may land on the wrong desk, wrong
hands or be discarded.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#70:1>
Advertising, as another alternative, can reach an even higher density
of the mass market in a shorter time.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#71:1>
It probably has more impact too.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#72:1>
Advertising can penetrate the private confines of consumers' homes.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#73:1>
However, we do not know if customers purchase as a consequence of a
particular advertisement, unless we use evidences such as coded coupons.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#74:1>
Now that you are aware of the comparative advantages in personal
selling, you will understand the significance of selling yourself to your
client.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#75:1>
Let's now see how you can do it.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#76:1>
<h> PACKAGE YOURSELF </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#77:1>
Since in direct selling, you have the advantage of face-to-face
contact, you should learn how to 'package' yourself.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#78:1>
'Packaging' is a term borrowed from Marketing.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#79:1>
In modern marketing, researchers have found innovative packaging to
be more persuasive on the customer.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#80:1>
This is especially true in consumer marketing.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#81:1>
Attractive packages easily catch the consumers' attention.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#82:1>
Elton John, as you know, is a flamboyant entertainer.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#83:1>
He isn't physically attractive.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#84:1>
But look at how he packages himself!

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#85:1>
Weird glasses, gay-coloured clothes and a freakish personality sell
him dearly to his audiences.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#86:1>
Of course, he has a decent voice to match.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#87:1>
But he sells his image to the masses.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#88:1>
So does Madonna - wearing her inner garments out!

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#89:1>
In the same principle, we should package ourselves to be better
presented to the customer.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#90:1>
But first, we must know what the customer is looking for, in a
salesman.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#91:1>
Find out what is required or expected of you in your trade.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#92:1>
Give the customers what they want.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#93:1>
In industrial sales, reliability and service are two important
factors.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#94:1>
As an industrial salesman, you are required to assure your clients of
your responsibility in these two aspects.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#95:1>
If reliability and service happen to be your strong points, you
should not only make them known.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#96:1>
You should emphasise it.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#97:1>
Most of us sadly, take ourselves for granted.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#98:1>
We do have some wonderful qualities I am sure, worthy of mention.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#99:1>
Even simple good-naturedness can be packaged for marketing.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#100:1>
I use the term, marketing, because it is more appropriate and
complete a term in this instance.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#101:1>
Everything to be precise, is marketable.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#102:1>
You only have to ensure that it is correctly marketed to the right
target at the right time.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#103:1>
Do not assume that customers place no value on intangible factors
such as your personal qualities.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#104:1>
Shakespeare said that all the world's a stage and all the men were
actors.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#105:1>
Although I do not imagine the world to be a stage, it is
nevertheless true, that beauty is sometimes skin-deep.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#106:1>
That means, you may have good qualities but if these are not
paraded, you may be taken for granted.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#107:1>
Hence, the need for packaging.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#108:1>
Give what you have to your clients.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#109:1>
But don't over-stretch yourself by pretending to be too good.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#110:1>
Selling designer clothes to high society fashionable leaders for
example, may require you to possess a fine taste for colour and style.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#111:1>
If you don't have it, don't pretend.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#112:1>
Interior decorators with an instinctive taste for space creation,
colour matchings, lines and curves, combined with technical knowledge, can
offer a better service - the customers must know it.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#113:1>
Generally speaking, there are two personal factors which are
consistently wanted by customers.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#114:1>
<h> Credibility </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#115:1>
The first is credibility.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#116:1>
Be it industrial or consumer sales, customers always look for
credibility in their salesmen.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#117:1>
Credibility is linked to trust and confidence.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#118:1>
In my discussion on professional ethics, I have stressed the
benefits of practising professional ethics.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#119:1>
If you take my advice well, you will find that credibility is not
something of a show.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#120:1>
No attempt or acting is necessary.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#121:1>
It comes through naturally once it is a part of you.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#122:1>
<h> Competence </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#123:1>
The next factor is competence.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#124:1>
People like to deal with salesmen who are competent in a multitude
of problem-solving abilities.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#125:1>
Customers often have to contend with supply problems, quality
problems, delivery schedules, this and that.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#126:1>
The more complete a service you can provide, the better your chances
of success.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#127:1>
You should aim to service your client better than your competitor.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#128:1>
Offer better solutions to his problems.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#129:1>
That will encourage your client to return to you again.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#130:1>
A simple trick here is to make selling as personal as possible.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#131:1>
Most of us deal with clients in a strictly business relationship.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#132:1>
Try to deepen this relationship further with a more personal touch.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#133:1>
You will be amazed by the improved results.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#134:1>
Human beings want to love and be loved.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#135:1>
A little more sensitive approach to your selling can bring wonderful
changes.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#136:1>
<h> LAY YOUR TRACK RECORD </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#137:1>
Unfortunately in our society, if you have no track record, nobody
remembers you.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#138:1>
It is necessary to document your achievements, stage by stage.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#139:1>
When you graduate from the university, your degree is the passport
to a job.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#140:1>
On receiving a promotion, the letter serves as a testimonial.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#141:1>
Without a verifiable record, how can employers know your previous
performance?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#142:1>
How can you expect people to believe what you claim to be your
achievements?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#143:1>
When I sell training packages, people ask me which companies have
used our services?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#144:1>
They want to know what kind of clients I've got.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#145:1>
Are they large MNCs or little businesses?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#146:1>
Even if I am terrific in my presentation, solid references may still
be required to substantiate my claims.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#147:1>
Fortunately for me, nice and satisfied clients use to write me
complimentary letters.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#148:1>
I file and occasionally print them in brochures.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#149:1>
When called for, I whip it out with pleasure.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#150:1>
If you are a successful sales professional, employers will come
knocking on your door.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#151:1>
Customers will know how to ask for your service.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#152:1>
One success generates another.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#153:1>
That's the reason why you must lay your track record.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#154:1>
Entrepreneurs like to drive Mercedes and BMW cars.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#155:1>
They carry gold-plated, branded pens in their shirt pockets.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#156:1>
Why do they indulge in these symbols of wealth?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#157:1>
The answer is obvious.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#158:1>
Other people should know that they are successful.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#159:1>
By displaying a favourable public impression, they can win your
confidence.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#160:1>
In every job that you undertake or any industry that you work in,
take my advice - make a mark for yourself!

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#161:1>
It is not that flattery that counts.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#162:1>
It is the very real benefit derived from having a prominent track
record.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#163:1>
People keep coming back to you.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#164:1>
Employers and customers alike.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#165:1>
Everybody loves a winner.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#166:1>
In my own case, I did not have the benefit of early foresight.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#167:1>
Imagine the opportunities that were lost.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#168:1>
But I was fortunate.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#169:1>
On several occasions, I discovered that I had actually left behind
favourable impressions in some of the industries.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#170:1>
I experienced great pleasure, meeting old customers who complimented
me.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#171:1>
They even asked me to return to that industry again.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#172:1>
Of course, they pledged their support for me.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#173:1>
People do remember you if you were good at your job.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#174:1>
And you never know how useful this might be.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#175:1>
You can also have competitors who 'love' and hate you for good.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#176:1>
When you are a good salesman, they will remember you for a different
reason.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#177:1>
Either way, it is a worthy track record.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#178:1>
Let me use a product instead, as an analogy to illustrate my point.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#179:1>
Why do marketeers brand their product?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#180:1>
Why are large sums of money spent to create a favourable public
image for a product?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#181:1>
A brand is an identity.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#182:1>
The more favourable it is, the more consumers will demand it.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#183:1>
When a brand becomes a generic name, consumers recall it easily.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#184:1>
Sales will continue as long as people remember the brand.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#185:1>
Do you still remember household names like Brands Essence of
chicken, Colgate toothpaste, Gillette razors, Nestum and Scotchtape?

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#186:1>
Scotchtape is so successful that the brand name has become a generic
word used to describe adhesive tapes.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#187:1>
When is the last time you instruct your secretary to buy " adhesive
tapes"? <X>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#X188:1>
You will, I am sure, remember Tupperware too.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-008#X189:1>
During the days of Tupperware parties, housewives and sisters
collected enough companions to eat, drink and socialise at such parties. </X>
</I>
