<I>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#1:1>
<h> Parenting Today </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#2:1>
by Dr Tan Ngoh Tiong

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#3:1>
Vicky Tan

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#4:1>
Anthony Yeo

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#5:1>
<h> Chapter 4 : Communicating With your child </h> <h> Listening to
your child </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#6:1>
It is true that communication involves talking to children.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#7:1>
But it is far more important to listen to them.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#8:1>
This is often difficult as adults are used to telling children what to
do.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#9:1>
It is far easier to talk and tell than to listen.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#10:1>
Listening requires you to pay close attention to what is being said
as well as how it is said.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#11:1>
It means listening with both your ears and your eyes.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#12:1>
Watch your child's body language so that you can appreciate better
what he is trying to tell you.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#13:1>
In order to have better communication with your child, you can begin
by assessing how you listen to him.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#14:1>
<h> How to listen to your child </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#15:1>
<h> 1) Show interest </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#16:1>
One good way to listen to your child is to show interest in what is
being said.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#17:1>
This can be done by:

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#18:1>
Facing your child

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#19:1>
Looking at him in the eye

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#20:1>
Putting aside whatever you are doing

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#21:1>
Avoiding distractions

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#22:1>
* Being physically close to the child

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#23:1>
Your child will get the message that he is being attended to and he
will respond to you.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#24:1>
He will feel that what he is saying is important enough.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#25:1>
<h> 2) Provide encouragers </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#26:1>
This refers to the parents' response to the child's message.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#27:1>
When your child is talking, he needs encouragement to keep on
talking.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#28:1>
It would be most discouraging if you were to listen quietly with a
blank look.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#29:1>
You can encourage by responding either verbally or non-verbally.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#30:1>
You can respond verbally by saying, " huh-huh", " mmm..", " yes", " I
see" or any short phrases to tell the child, " I'm listening, keep on
talking".

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#31:1>
You can encourage non-verbally by your body language.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#32:1>
You can tell your child to keep on talking by nodding, smiling,
making eye contact, making gestures and leaning forward.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#33:1>
It is not uncommon for parents to have a child sit on their laps,
keeping him close or hugging him when he is talking.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#34:1>
In all these ways you are telling your child that you are interested
and willing to give attention.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#35:1>
<h> 3) Ask appropriate questions </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#36:1>
You may wish to avoid interrogating your child, which happens if you
ask too many questions, or focus too much on details without giving much time
for your child to respond.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#37:1>
One helpful way to ask questions is to think of open questions, which
keep conversations flowing.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#38:1>
These questions usually begin with " what", " why" and " how".

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#39:1>
Asking your child " How do you feel about such and such?" is more
helpful than " Do you feel good about such and such?".

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#40:1>
As with anything else, it is necessary to be age-appropriate.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#41:1>
Talking with younger children, especially those below six, is
different from talking to someone older.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#42:1>
You need to ask more close-ended questions to draw out responses from
a younger child.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#43:1>
He may not be ready to speak freely and respond to open-ended
questions.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#44:1>
It is also good to avoid asking too many questions.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#45:1>
Sometimes not asking questions keeps the conversation flowing.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#46:1>
Silence or encouraging by verbal and non-verbal signs would be
better.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#47:1>
<h> 4) Enter the child's world </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#48:1>
Adults look at things differently from a child.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#49:1>
What may seem obvious to an adult may not be so for a child.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#50:1>
A young child may tend to engage in fantasy and talk about things
from his imagination.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#51:1>
He may tell you that his friend is on the phone and he wants to talk
for a while.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#52:1>
In reality, there may be no one on the line and the child could be
talking to himself.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#53:1>
To give attention to your child, you need to appreciate your child's
use of fantasy and play, especially in the first six years of his life.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#54:1>
Your child needs to be understood and not be told, " Don't be stupid,
there is no one on the line," when he talks to himself on the telephone.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#55:1>
Instead, you need to enter the fantasy world of your child and listen
for what it means to talk to someone.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#56:1>
The child is not talking to himself.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#57:1>
He is probably having someone in mind.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#58:1>
Apart from understanding the fantasy world of the child, you need to
appreciate what goes on in the mind of the child.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#59:1>
You need to be equally imaginative in trying to figure out what your
child is thinking.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#60:1>
Your child's message will make more sense if you try to see things
from his point of view.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#61:1>
<h> 5) " Listen" with your eyes </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#62:1>
When your child is speaking, you need to be observant as to how he is
behaving.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#63:1>
What he does speaks as loudly as what he says.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#64:1>
A child often communicates through play, drawing and actions.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#65:1>
Sometimes he will act out what he is trying to say.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#66:1>
A child who misbehaves often may be saying: that he wants you to pay
more attention to him or exercise a little more control over him.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#67:1>
This is sometimes not obvious.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#68:1>
He may act out his feelings and needs rather than talk about them.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#69:1>
Some children are vocal and will express their needs.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#70:1>
Some are not.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#71:1>
It is equally helpful to watch your child play or draw.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#72:1>
Very often he tries to communicate his inner world in these ways.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#73:1>
It is much easier for a young child to do things than to talk about
how he feels.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#74:1>
He may not have the words to express what he wants to say.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#75:1>
Of course there are those who speak their minds and those who do
both.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#76:1>
So listening involves hearing and seeing.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#77:1>
<h> 6) Listen to words </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#78:1>
It is very important that you listen to what is said.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#79:1>
There can be two levels in understanding what your child means by his
words.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#80:1>
He could be telling you literally what he wants or there could be an
underlying message.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#81:1>
For example, if a child says, " I want to sleep with you tonight, he
could be saying he actually wants to sleep with his parents.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#82:1>
On the other hand he could also be saying he wants his parents to
assure him that nothing will harm him when he is asleep.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#83:1>
So the words could mean one or both things.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#84:1>
You need to hear accurately what is said.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#85:1>
Sometimes you may need to interpret what is being said with what you
see.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#86:1>
Of course, you would not want to end up trying to interpret
everything your child says.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#87:1>
However, it would help to listen to what is said so that you may
understand what your child is thinking.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#88:1>
<h> 7) Listen to feelings </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#89:1>
What one says is often related to how one feels.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#90:1>
Your child could be telling you his feelings through what he says or
does not say.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#91:1>
When communicating with your child, it is important that you listen
to his feelings.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#92:1>
This can be done by entering into the child's world ( as discussed
earlier and observing what he does.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#93:1>
One way to do it is to respond to his feelings.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#94:1>
You could say, " So, you are feeling very angry".

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#95:1>
Or, You are very upset by what happened".

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#96:1>
By recognising his feelings, you are telling your child that you
understand what is going on inside him and can feel with him.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#97:1>
Your child will feel understood and will find it easier to confide in
you if he feels this way.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#98:1>
<h> 8) Responding to your child </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#99:1>
To encourage communication with their children, parents need to be
aware of their own responses.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#100:1>
How parents respond to their children will influence the way their
children talk to them.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#101:1>
When your child asks questions, these could be used to encourage
discussion.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#102:1>
Instead of answering directly, you can respond by saying, " What do
you mean by..." or " When you ask...what were you thinking about?".

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#103:1>
Or, " why you ask?".

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#104:1>
Allowing your child to respond will lead further dialogue.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#105:1>
You can also ask your child to clarify what he had said.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#106:1>
In these ways you can be clear about what is on your child's mind
and what his intentions are.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#107:1>
This is better than presuming you know what is being said.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#108:1>
There will be times when your child asks questions that you have no
answers for.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#109:1>
This can be awkward for some parents.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#110:1>
Somehow, parents have been made to believe that they must know
everything and should never admit they do not know something.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#111:1>
The suitable response if you do not know something is to be honest.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#112:1>
It does not hurt to say, " I'm afraid I don't know the answer" and
suggest how you and your child might go about finding out the answer.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#113:1>
This will avoid the impression that parents are all-knowing.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#114:1>
Sometimes children do think that parents know or should know
everything.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#115:1>
To deal with such situations it might be helpful to say, " What do
you think?" or, " Let me find out.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#116:1>
I'll let you know once I've found the answer.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#117:1>
In such ways, you can be honest as well as assure your child that
something will be done.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#118:1>
Further, your child can be engaged in finding answers to his own
questions.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#119:1>
This will help him to think.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#120:1>
A parent who answers every question of the child might not be
encouraging the child to think for himself.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#121:1>
The child could also become overly dependent on his parents.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#122:1>
<h> Consequences and problems in communication </h>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#123:1>
While it is a good idea to encourage effective communication with
children, parents need to know that the process may not always be easy or
pleasant.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#124:1>
Communication needs time and some parents simply have little time to
spare.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#125:1>
This is especially so with both parents working outside the home.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#126:1>
Time with children tends to be " activity" time rather than "
relational" time.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#127:1>
" Activity" time refers to time spent doing things or getting things
done.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#128:1>
This is time spent getting your child fed, washed and put to bed.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#129:1>
It may involve going about with household chores.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#130:1>
Though needed, such times may take your attention away from your
child.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#131:1>
You may be so busy getting things done for and with your child that
little time is spent talking and listening to him.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#132:1>
To ensure useful communication, you need to make use of whatever
available time there is.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#133:1>
It requires a conscious attempt to spend " relational" time with
your child.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#134:1>
This refers to time spent talking and listening to your child.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#135:1>
It is time to talk or attend to your child's needs.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#136:1>
Such times need not be specially planned, though it helps to do so.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#137:1>
What is important is to be aware of available time and make use of
it.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#138:1>
The other difficulty in communicating with children is that parents
may be preoccupied with their own concerns.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#139:1>
Your child needs your attention and presence.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#140:1>
This is particularly so during the first 6 years of his life.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#141:1>
As your child grows towards teenage years, he may want to spend less
time with you.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#142:1>
You can learn to unwind from work and other thoughts so as to be
ready to give as much attention as possible to your child when you are home.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#143:1>
Some parents think that they can always postpone time with their
children.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#144:1>
It is not uncommon to find parents saying to their children, " Not
now, I'm busy.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#145:1>
Why not some other time?".

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#146:1>
This can lead to unhappy consequences as the child may lose interest
and confidence and not be available when parents are.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#147:1>
Parents sometimes find it difficult to appreciate what their
children may say to them.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#148:1>
They get impatient if they take too long to express themselves or
talk about things that border on fantasy.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#149:1>
It is far easier to cut them off and finish what they have to say
than to wait for them.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#150:1>
This can discourage children and make them feel that what they say
is not important.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#151:1>
Some children are not very communicative.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#152:1>
This presents a problem as parents attempt to draw them out without
much success.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#153:1>
A helpful approach is to engage such children in play and other
non-verbal activities.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#154:1>
Reading to them, when they are young, could be another way to get
through to them. <X>

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#X155:1>
Whatever is done, parents should avoid pressuring them to talk.

<ICE-SIN:W2B-016#X156:1>
Apart from problems in communication, there is a possible
consequence in encouraging active communication with children. </X> </I>
